GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE MAY 15 MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL,
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
UNDER INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY
AND JUSTICE FOR ALL
BUT OUR
CLERK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL MEMBER DISH HERE
COUNCILMAN HARRISON HERE MY
SONG HERE COMES FOR WATSON.
HERE COMES MY DENHA HERE HOW HE
HAD WON HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE,
COUNCILOR CUSTOMER HERE
CUSTOMER BRIGGS HERE,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL HERE WE HAVE
A QUORUM MAY HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY KOTSENBURG BECAUSE HE
HAD ONE SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
AGENDA ON FAVOR POSED THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR
KNOW THAT IS MY MY PLEASURE TO
ISSUE A PROCLAMATION AND IF
FOLKS WILL COME JOIN ME UP ON
THE PODIUM IN CONNECTION WITH
MAY TWENTY TWENTY THREE AS ASIA
ASIAN PACIFIC PACIFIC ASIAN
PACIFIC ISLANDER AMERICAN
HERITAGE MONTH PLEASE COME ON
UP
COME JOIN ME ON OVER HERE
.
SO SO ANN ARBOR IS OF COURSE
TYPIFIED TYPIFIED BY MANY
THINGS NOT NOT EXCLUSIVELY ITS
OUTSTANDING MUNICIPAL SERVICES
.
IT IS ALSO KNOWN FOR FOR OUR
VALUES, FOR OUR EXPRESSIONS,
OUR CONSTANT EXPRESSIONS IN
PERFORMANCES OF OF PLURALISM,
THE DIVERSITY WITHIN OUR
COMMUNITY WHEREIN WE KNOW THAT
WE ARE WELL AND TRULY STRONGER
WHEN WE ARE TOGETHER AND IN
CONNECTION WITH THAT IT IS MY
GREAT PLEASURE TO TO HONOR THE
ASIA PACIFIC ASIAN PACIFIC
ISLANDER COMMUNITY WITHIN ANN
ARBOR INDEED WHICH IS ONE
OF OUR STRONGEST AND MOST
VALUED MEMBER GROUPS WITH THE
ISSUANCE OF THIS MAN.
>> I'M GOING TO ASK YOU NOT TO
INTERRUPT ME PLEASE.
OTHERWISE YOU'RE GOING TO BE
DECLARED TO BE DISTURBING THE
MEETING.
THANK.
>> AND SO I'D LIKE TO READ THIS
PROCLAMATION IN IN YOUR
COLLECTIVE HONORS PROCLAMATION
WITH RESPECT TO ME BEING ASIAN
PACIFIC ISLANDER AMERICAN
HERITAGE MONTH WHEREAS THE
MONTH OF MAY HAS BEEN SELECTED
AS ASIAN PACIFIC ISLANDER
AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE IMPORTANT
HISTORICAL EVENTS ON MAY SEVEN
,1843 WITH THE FIRST JAPANESE
IMMIGRANTS ARRIVING TO THE
UNITED STATES AND ON MAY 10,
1869 THE FIRST TRANSCONTINENTAL
RAILROAD COMPLETED WITH
SUBSTANTIAL CONTRIBUTION FROM
CHINESE IMMIGRANTS AND WHEREAS
AS OF TWENTY TWENTY TWO APPIA
ARE THE FASTEST GROWING
POPULATION IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN AND WHEREAS FROM
TWENTY TEN AND TWENTY TWENTY
THE APIA POPULATION INCREASED
IN SEVENTY PERCENT OF MICHIGAN
COUNTIES WITH WASHTENAW COUNTY
HAVING ONE OF THE HIGHEST
CONCENTRATIONS OF GROWTH AMIDST
ONE OF THE ALREADY LARGEST
MEMBERS OF APIA RESIDENTS IN
THE STATE AND WHEREAS THE
TWENTY TWENTY CENSUS DATA
REVEALS THAT APPIA RESIDENTS
ARE THE SECOND LARGEST RACIAL
GROUP IN ANN ARBOR AND WHEREAS
THE APPIA COMMUNITY EXPANDED
UPON SOLIDARITY CIVIL RIGHTS
WORK WITH ALLIES WHO SHARE
HISTORIES OF BLACK, INDIGENOUS
AND PEOPLE OF COLOR AND IN THE
AFTERMATH OF THE 1980 MURDER
OF VINCENT CHIN IN DETROIT
BECOMING THE FIRST FEDERAL HATE
CRIME LITIGATED IN AN APPIA
VICTIM WHEREAS A. APPIA
SENTIMENT HAS INCREASED
EXPONENTIALLY IN RECENT YEARS
AND IN ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL
HAS CONDEMNED HATE CRIMES
HATEFUL RHETORIC AND HATEFUL
ACTS AGAINST ASIAN AND ASIAN
AMERICANS.
IN APRIL TWENTY TWO AND WHEREAS
DESPITE ONGOING CHALLENGES
APPIA COMMUNITY LEADERS IN ANN
ARBOR SOME OF WHOM WERE ARRAYED
HERE, OTHERS
OF WHOM WE HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF BEING JOINED BY
A CITY COUNCIL IN ANN ARBOR
HAVE COMMITTED TO COMMUNITY
WELL-BEING, HEALTH AND JUSTICE
FOR ALL THROUGHOUT THEIR
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL WORK.
>> DOCTOR DR. ROBI BUNDY, A
PACKARD HEALTH PHYSICIAN
DEDICATED TO HOUSE TO HOUSING
FIRST MODEL OF CARE SO THAT
AVALON HOUSING MEMBERS RECEIVE
COMPASSIONATE MEDICAL CARE IN
THEIR HOMES.
NANCY WANG, THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF VOTES NOT VOTERS,
NOT POLITICIANS HAS LED
CITIZENS DIRECTED REDISTRICTING
AND CITIZEN DRIVEN DEMOCRACY
REFORMS.
NEWDOW, PRINCIPAL OF WASHTENAW
INTERNATIONAL MIDDLE SCHOOL AND
HIGH SCHOOL, HAS SUPPORTED
STUDENTS TO BECOME AN EMPHATIC
AMBASSADORS IN A MORE INCLUSIVE
WORLD.
>> AND REBECCA ISLAM, THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF APA VOTE
MICHIGAN WHO HAS LED STATEWIDE
EFFORTS TO INCREASE CIVIC
ENGAGEMENT AND VOTER TURNOUT
OF MICHIGAN'S AIPA COMMUNITIES
NOW THEREFORE I.
CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN
ANNOUNCING AND CELEBRATE THE
CONTRIBUTIONS OF ASIAN PACIFIC
ISLANDER AMERICANS THAT THEY
HAVE MADE TO SOCIETY DO HEREBY
DECLARE MAY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
TO BE ASIA PACIFIC ISLANDER
AMERICAN HERITAGE MONTH IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR ENCOURAGE ALL
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO JOIN US IN
THIS SPECIAL OBSERVANCE.
>> THANK AND SO THANK YOU AND
OF COURSE I'D LIKE BEFORE
BEFORE TURNING OVER THE PODIUM
BRIEF I WAS REMISS AT THE
BEGINNING OF MY REMARKS NOT TO
NOT TO NOTE AND OBSERVE AND
GIVE GRACIOUS THANKS TO COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDWYN, A COUNCIL
MEMBER SONG FOR HAVING
INITIATED THIS THIS RECOGNITION
OF COURSE THEIR THEIR
NOTEWORTHY AND EXEMPLARY
SERVICE HERE AT THE SO THANK
YOU.
>> COME ON OVER.
THANK YOU.
GOOD THING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS REBECCA ESLAM,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF APELT
MICHIGAN AND I JUST REALLY WANT
TO SAY THANK YOU TO THE MAYOR
THE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS AND
JUST THE CITY AT LARGE FOR THIS
HONOR AND OUR AS MENTIONED IS
ONE OF THE LARGEST COMMUNITIES
THAT HOUSES THE HOUSES THAT IS
HOME TO MANY ASIAN-AMERICANS.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THIS
RECOGNITION AND WE TRULY THANK
YOU
.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC COMMENT IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAKER PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY CLERK
SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND ONLINE
HAD THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION THE TIME OUR CLERK
WILL NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY
SECONDS ARE REMAINING AND WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED, WHEN
YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE
THE FLOOR.
>> OUR FIRST SPEAKER IS
REASSURED
COLORANT THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING IN ONE FOUR FIVE
SIX YOURSELF.
>> GO AHEAD.
HELLO CAN YOU AMY YES WE CAN
PERFECT.
HELLO MY NAME IS ARE YOU SURE
THAT OPEN THE FIRST FOR I'M
QUITE DISAPPOINTED WITH HOW
MUCH OF THIS BUDGET IS GOING TO
THE POLICE.
THIRTY ONE MILLION NEARLY THREE
YEARS AFTER THE PUBLIC
EXECUTION GEORGE WENT TO POLICE
IN ANY CITY AND QUITE EXPENSIVE
AND YOU DON'T MAKE PEOPLE FEEL
SAFER ARE WE NOT IN ANY
REALISTIC WE DON'T NEED MIND
WANDERING DOWNTOWN WATCHING
OVER PEOPLE.
>> WE NEED YOU TO START SLOWLY
SAVING THE BUDGET DOWN FOR
POLICE AND START ALLOCATING
MONEY TO AND ON THE ONE I KNOW
YOU CAN'T BE POLICE AT ONCE BUT
IT'S DEFINITELY SOMETHING THAT
NEEDS BE DONE IN COMING YEARS
REGARDLESS OF YOU KNOW HOW YOU
FEEL ABOUT IT BECAUSE OTHERWISE
YOU'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
LIVE IN A POLICE STATE THAT
LAST NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DEREK
MILLER
.
THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN ZERO
EIGHT FOUR STAR SIX TIME
YOURSELF ZERO EIGHT FOR DEREK
MILLER.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> THERE WE GO.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
NAMES THAT MILLER AWARD FOR
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM, THE
ACTION NETWORK.
I'M HERE TODAY TO ADVOCATE FOR
THE INCLUSIVE AND
TRANSFORMATIVE CELEBRATION
OF OUR RESPECTIVE TENILLE AS WE
COMMEMORATE TWO CENTURIES
OF GROWTH DIVERSITY.
I URGE YOU TO CONSIDER THE
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK AS A
PERFECT LOCATION FOR A
THRILLING AND MUCH NEEDED
SPLASH ZONE OR OTHER PARK
AMENITIES AS BAIT IN THE
RESOLUTIONS OF DIRECT CITY
ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATE FOCUS
AREA AT THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
BICENTENNIAL PARK.
WHY IS AREA PARK?
>> IT IS A BEACON
OF OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
RESIDENTS OF SOUTHEAST ANN
ARBOR THE LARGEST CONCENTRATION
OF LOW INCOME INDIVIDUALS IN
OUR CITY.
THIS COMMUNITY DESERVES NOT
ONLY COMMEMORATION BUT TANGIBLE
INVESTMENTS THAT UPLIFTS THEIR
LIVES WHICH IS JUST THIS AREA
PARK AS SPECIFIED IN THE
RESOLUTION HAVE THE CHANCE TO
CREATE AN ACCESSIBLE AND
EMPOWERING SPACE FOR FAMILIES
AND CHILDREN AND INDIVIDUALS
WHO MAY HAVE LIMITED
RECREATIONAL OPTIONS.
MOREOVER, THE PRESENCE
OF CONNECTION NETWORK ALSO
KNOWN AS CAN IN THIS AREA
FURTHER HIGHLIGHT THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF SURFACE AREA
PARK CONCERTS THREE
UNDER-RESOURCED NEIGHBORHOODS
IN THIS AREA AND THESE
COMMUNITIES WOULD DIRECTLY
BENEFIT FROM THE CREATION
OF THIS PARK IN THE COMMUNITIES
HAVE EXPRESSED A COMMITMENT TO
COORDINATING THIS AMAZING
AMENITY ENSURING THAT CHILDREN
AND FAMILIES WHO FACE ECONOMIC
BARRIERS EXPERIENCE THE JOY
INTERSECT.
>> IT OFFERS WELL LET US NOT
FORGET THAT THERE IS ALSO STILL
AN INCREDIBLE NEED FOR HUMAN
SERVICE AND SUPPORT IN THIS
AREA.
JUST TODAY LARGEST FOOD
DISTRIBUTION EMERGENCY CENTER
RAN OUT AT MIDDAY AND WILL NOT
BE REPLENISHED UNTIL WEDNESDAY
.
SADLY THIS HAS BECOME A COMMON
OCCURRENCE BY DESIGNATING
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK AS TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR BICENTENNIAL PARK
WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
ADDRESS NOT ONLY THE NEED FOR
RECREATIONAL SPACES BUT ALSO
URGENT NEED FOR VITAL SERVICES.
WE HAVE BEEN A POWERFUL MESSAGE
TO OUR COMMUNITY THAT OUR
COMMUNITY STANDS UNITED IN
SUPPORTING OUR MOST VULNERABLE
RESIDENTS.
MOST OF THESE AREA PARKS
STRATEGIC LOCATION NEAR
MULTIPLE NEIGHBORHOODS AND
VARIOUS HOUSING OPTIONS ENSURES
THAT FAMILIES FROM DIFFERENT
PARTS OF THE CITY CAN ACCESS
THE WATER PARK WITH
TRANSPORTATION SHOULD NEVER BE
A BARRIER TO ENJOY AND BY
SELECTING THE PARK AS OUTLINED
IN THE RESOLUTION WE MAKE A
BOLD STATEMENT ABOUT OUR
COMMITMENT TO EQUITABLE ACCESS
FOR ALL RESIDENTS REGARDLESS
OF THEIR SOCIOECONOMIC
CIRCUMSTANCES.
LET US SEE THIS OCCASION THE
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATIONS TO
MAKE A LASTING IMPACT IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I IMPLORE YOU TO CONSIDER A
LONG LASTING BENEFIT THE
POSITIVE IMPACT ON MARGINALIZED
POPULATIONS AND THE OPPORTUNITY
TO FOSTER A SENSE OF UNITY THAT
TRANSCEND SOCIO SOCIOECONOMIC
CONCERNS THAT AS OUTLINED IN
THE RESOLUTION TO CHOOSE
SOMETHING VERY PARK AS A HOME
FOR THE BICENTENNIAL PARK AND
LET US CELEBRATE OUR HISTORY BY
CREATING A FUTURE THAT TRULY
INCLUSIVE, VIBRANT AND
ACCESSIBLE TO ALL.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CON
KITTIE
CON PHONE NUMBER THREE FOUR
FIVE FOUR STAR SIX ON MEET YOUR
PHONE
COLOR THREE FOUR FIVE
CRESTAR SIX TO MEET YOUR PHONE
GO AHEAD.
OK SORRY ABOUT THAT.
I WAS JUST KIDDING.
KIND OF A DELIGHTFUL I'M
CALLING ABOUT SOMETHING THAT I
HEARD THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
HOLY SAY AT THE MAY 9TH MEETING
OF THE ANN ARBOR COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE.
THIS IS A MEETING THAT WAS
BROADCAST AUDIO ONLY IT WAS NOT
IDEAL NOR WAS IT TELEVISED.
MR. HORNING SPOKE ABOUT HIS
PLAN FOR A CITY TO BUILD MARKET
RATE HOUSING NEXT TO CITY HALL
.
>> HE HAD MENTIONED THIS WHEN
HE GAVE HIS BUDGET PRESENTATION
TO CITY COUNCIL ABOUT A MONTH
AGO BUT HE WENT INTO MORE
DETAIL.
I MEAN RIGHT NOW I'M GOING TO
QUOTE MR. COHEN.
>> HE SAID QUOTE I'M ASSUMING
THAT WE GET PAST THE BUDGET ON
MONDAY AND COUNCIL DOESN'T SAY
DON'T DO IT STARTING MAY 16TH
I'M ON QUOTE THERE MR. CARNEY
CLARIFIED EXACTLY WHAT THE
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT WOULD LOOK
LIKE QUOTING MR. JACONI AGAIN
HE SAID QUOTE IF HIGH END
MARKET RATE HIGH LEVEL FINISHES
YOU WANT TO CHARGE AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE YOU WANT THIS THING TO
GENERATE AS MUCH CASH AS
POSSIBLE.
THAT'S WHY I DID NOT SAY LET'S
USE IT FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNQUOTE.
>> LET ME REPEAT WHAT HE SAID
BECAUSE CHECK ME WHEN I HEARD
IT HE SAID AND LISTEN CAREFULLY
QUOTE IT'S HIGH END MARKET RATE
HIGH LEVEL FINISHES YOU WANT TO
CHARGE AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE.
YOU WANT THIS THING TO GENERATE
AS MUCH CASH AS POSSIBLE.
THAT'S WHY I DID NOT SAY LET'S
USE IT FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
UNQUOTE.
I'D LIKE TO HEAR MORE ABOUT MR.
TONY'S PLAN AND I WANT HIM TO
EXPLAIN HOW THIS FITS INTO OUR
CITY'S NEED FOR AFFORDABLE AND
WORKFORCE HOUSING.
WE HAVE A LOT OF HIGH END
MARKET RATE HOUSING IN OUR CITY
ALREADY.
DO WE REALLY WANT OUR TAX
DOLLARS TO PAY FOR EVEN MORE
OF THAT?
I KNOW I DON'T.
WHAT ABOUT YOU, MR. DARLING
SAYS
HIS PLAN IS A WAY FOR THE
CITY TO RAISE MONEY HE WANTS
TO
PUT THE SAME HIGH END HOUSING
AND DECLINE LEFT BUT I'VE SEEN
THE CITY PLAY DEVELOPER BEFORE
AND WE ENDED UP LOSING MONEY ON
THAT SCHEME.
MAYBE MR. TONY DIDN'T KNOW
ABOUT THAT.
SOMEBODY SHOULD FILL HIM IN I
THINK PROBABLY A LOT OF THE NEW
COUNCIL MEMBERS I WANT
EVERYBODY ON COUNCIL NOW
DOESN'T KNOW ABOUT WHEN THE
CITY TRIED TO PLAY DEVELOPER
BEFORE LEARNING THAT.
>> SO INSTEAD WHY DON'T WE TRY
TO LIVE WITHIN OUR MEANS AND
REALIGN OUR PRIORITIES?
FOR EXAMPLE, COUNCIL CHAMBERS
WAS REDONE JUST SEVEN YEARS
JUST THEY NEED TO BE REDONE
AGAIN NOW WITH A MURAL ON
FEELING REALLY THIS IS ONLY ONE
EXAMPLE I'M SURE WE COULD FIND
MANY MORE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CATHERINE HADLEY.
>> CATHERINE HADLEY, IF YOU'RE
ON ZOOME WILL YOU PLEASE RAISE
YOUR HAND
?
I DO NOT SEE CATHERINE HADLEY
ON THE ZOOME CALL BECAUSE I
HEAR YOU MY MY MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT MISS HADLEY IS NOT
PLANNING TO JOIN US IN THE
EVENT THAT SHE CHOOSES.
SHE CAN COME BACK AND COME
AGAIN AND RAISE HER HAND THE
ZOOME AND OR CALL IN AT THE AT
THE NUMBER ON THE AGENDA.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES
.
>> MICHELLE HUGHES GO AHEAD.
HI.
I WANTED TO CALL IN AGAIN TO
SPEAK AGAINST THE PLAN TO HAVE
DOWNTOWN FOOT PATROLS BY
POLICE.
I THINK THAT WE HAVE A
PERFECTLY GOOD SOLUTION IN
HAVING A AND HAVING SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES AND OR SUPPORTIVE
CONNECTIONS AND EMT IS GOING
AROUND DOWNTOWN AND WE DON'T
NEED TO HAVE POLICE THERE AS
WELL BECAUSE POLICE WILL
INCREASE THE DANGER TO OUR
BLACK MEMBERS, TO OUR OTHER
MINORITY COMMUNITY MEMBERS WHO
WOULD LIKE TO HAVE EQUAL
OPPORTUNITY TO USE THE DOWNTOWN
WITHOUT BEING HARASSED AND IF
YOU KNOW IF THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT THE DOWNTOWN BUSINESS
OWNERS ARE LIKE PRESSURING US
INTO DOING BECAUSE THEY DON'T
LIKE TO HAVE A CERTAIN TYPE
OF PERSON IN FRONT OF THEIR
BUSINESS, THEN WE NEED TO TELL
THEM THAT THAT'S JUST THE PRICE
OF LIVING IN A FREE SOCIETY
THAT YOU CAN'T YOU CAN'T JUST
USE THE POLICE AS A CUDGEL TO
GET RID OF ALL THE UNDESIRABLES
FOR YOU.
SO PLEASE DON'T HAVE THE POLICE
WALKING AROUND DOWNTOWN
HARASSING PEOPLE AND I THINK
THAT IT'S IT'S BEEN ENOUGH
YEARS SINCE THE LARGEST POPULAR
UPRISING IN HISTORY HAPPENED
AROUND THE GEORGE FLOYD
PROTESTS.
THERE'S BEEN ENOUGH TIME AROUND
THAT'S THAT WE SHOULD HAVE
INTERNALIZED THE LESSON THAT
THERE ARE THAT THE POLICE PUT
CERTAIN MEMBERS OF OUR
COMMUNITY IN DANGER MORE THAN
THEY HELP ANYBODY AND THAT WE
SHOULD BE LOOKING FOR OTHER
BETTER SOLUTIONS RATHER THAN
INCREASING POLICE PRESENCE.
>> SO PLEASE RETHINK THAT PLAN
AND MOVE FORWARD AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE WITH THE UNARMED
RESPONSE PROGRAM.
LET'S GET THAT RFP OUT, MAKE
SURE IT INCLUDES THINGS LIKE A
SEPARATE NUMBER OF PEOPLE CAN
CALL IF THEY DON'T WANT TO CALL
911, IF THEY WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT POLICE DON'T SHOW UP TO
THESE WELLNESS CHECKS 30
SECONDS, MAKE SURE POLICE ARE
NOT INVOLVED IN AN ARMED
RESPONSE CALLS BECAUSE THAT
WOULD MAKE THEM INTO ARMED
RESPONSE CALLS SO THAT'S WHERE
WE SHOULD BE FOCUSING IS ON
UNARMED RESPONSE AND NOT ON
INCREASING ARMED RESPONSE
PRESENCE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
CHRISTINA MONTAGUE
.
>> MAYOR, WE WERE EXPECTING
MISS MONTAGUE TO BE IN PERSON
IS TO YOU IF YOU ARE ONLINE OR
ON THE PHONE, PLEASE ENTER STAR
NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND.
>> COSTAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR
HAND
.
I DON'T SEE MISS MONTAGUE
ONLINE OR IN THE CHAMBER.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN AS A RESIDENT OF ARBOR
,MICHIGAN, I DECLARE TODAY TO
BE MAC BY DAY AND A K BE A
KNOCK BY DAY IN ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL THE NACHBAR IS THE
ONGOING MASS MURDER AND MASS
ROBBERY THAT IS COMMITTED
AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN PEOPLE
WITH YOUR TAX DOLLARS EVERY DAY
BY ISRAEL.
IN JUST THE LAST WEEK YOU SAW
ON THE NEWS ISRAEL BLOWING DOWN
WHOLE BUILDINGS, BLOWING OUT
HOMES, MURDERING CHILDREN IN
THEIR BEDS WHILE THEY SLEPT.
YOU SAW ALL THAT ON YOUR TV
NEWS THIS IS WHAT ISRAEL DOES
WITH YOUR MILITARY AID WITH
YOUR TAX DOLLARS, WITH YOUR
THREE POINT EIGHT BILLION
DOLLARS A YEAR AND THE MAYOR
HERE THE MAYOR HERE HAS THE TO
PRETEND THAT HE'S FOR
MINORITIES, HE'S FOR ASIAN
AMERICANS.
>> THAT'S.
WHAT HAPPENED TO VINCENT CHIN
OR HE WAS MURDERED WITH IMPUNE
.
HE HAPPENS EVERY DAY IN
OCCUPIED PALESTINE PAID FOR BY
YOUR TAX DOLLARS.
SO DON'T PRETEND THAT YOU ARE
AGAINST THAT KIND OF VIOLENCE
TO HAPPEN TO VINCENT CHIN
BECAUSE ISRAEL HAS
CREATED THOUSANDS OF VINCENT
CHENS WITH EVEN MORE IMPUNITY
THAN THE KILLERS.
>> VINCENT GOT EVEN MORE
IMPUNITY.
>> YOU THE CITY COUNCIL HAVE
THROWN ALL YOUR WEIGHT AGAINST
EVERY SINGLE RESOLUTION THAT
TRIES TO OBJECT TO THE MOUNTAIN
OF MILITARY AID THAT YOU GIVE
TO ISRAEL EVEN WHEN THAT
RESOLUTION CAME FROM YOUR OWN
NABIL HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
EVEN THEN YOU THREW YOUR WEIGHT
AGAINST ALL THOSE PALESTINIAN
HUMAN RIGHTS RESOLUTIONS.
>> SO DON'T EVEN TRY TO PRETEND
YOU'RE AGAINST RACISM.
>> YOU ARE COMMITTING RACIST
CRIMES AGAINST THE PALESTINIAN
PEOPLE EVERY SINGLE TIME YOU
TURN YOUR BACK AND THROW YOUR
WEIGHT AGAINST PALESTINE ANIMAL
RIGHTS RESOLUTIONS.
THAT'S WHY I BELIEVE THIS CITY
COUNCIL IS RACIST TO THE BONE
TONIGHT YOU'LL HEAR WEEPING AND
WAILING ABOUT THE BLACK LIVES
MATTER.
YEAH, WELL PLAYED IN THE PARK.
WHOEVER DEFACED I HOPE GETS THE
MAXIMUM PENALTY FOR THAT FOR A
HATE CRIME AND FOR VANDALISM.
I HOPE.
RIGHT.
GOOD OR BAD IS THAT THE MAXIMUM
YOU HAVE TO GIVE TO THE BLACK
COMMUNITY A DAB OF YELLOW PAINT
ON THE SIDEWALK.
THAT'S ALL YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE
TO THE BLACK COMMUNITY AFTER
EVERYTHING YOU'VE TAKEN AWAY.
THIS IS THE KIND OF RACIST CITY
COUNCIL WE ARE DEALING WITH
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOZART
BOJAN SLB ANTHONY NO.
I AM ALSO HERE TO SPEAK FOR
PALESTINA IN HUMAN RIGHTS.
I HAVE BEEN DOING IT FOR MANY,
MANY YEARS HERE.
THIS CITY COUNCIL WANTS YOU TO
BELIEVE THEIR ANTIRACIST.
THEY WANT TO TELL YOU THAT THEY
LOVE BLACK PEOPLE BUT THAT'S
ALL GARBAGE.
THEY ARE LIARS.
THEIR RECORD SHOWS THAT THEY DO
NOT WANT BLACKS IN THIS TOWN.
THIS CITY HAS BEEN GENTRIFIED.
THIRTY YEARS AGO THIS TOWN HAD
A VIBRANT BLACK COMMUNITY.
TODAY THAT BLACK COMMUNITY DOES
NOT EXIST HAVE BEEN SQUEEZED
OUT.
IN FACT THE OLD WEST SIDE WAS
TO AFRICAN-AMERICAN BLACK
FAMILIES TODAY YOU BARELY FIND
ANY BLACK PEOPLE THERE.
SO WHEN THEY TELL YOU THEY LOVE
BLACKS AND THEY LIVE BLACK
LIVES MATTER MOVEMENT, VERILLI
I THINK ANOTHER CASE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN 50 YEARS AGO
PROMISED 10 PERCENT BLACK
ENROLLMENT TO A STATE THAT HAS
NOT HAPPENED TO THIS DAY.
NO ONE ON THIS CALL FOR ANY
OTHER COUNCIL HAS PUSHED
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN TO DO
GOOD ON THEIR PROMISE.
FIFTY YEARS AGO IN FACT,
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN IS ONE
OF THE MOST ATROCIOUS WHEN IT
COMES TO BLACK MOVEMENT THERE
IS IT IS THE RACE ANYWHERE IN
THE UNITED STATES.
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN PROMISED
10 PERCENT BLACK ENROLLMENT TO
THIS DAY NO ONE IN THIS CITY
COUNCIL HAS DEMANDED THAT THEY
DO IT.
COME AND DO IT.
MAKE SURE 10 PERCENT ENROLLMENT
OF BLACKS HAPPEN.
THEY NEVER HAVE.
SO YOU CAN SEE THE RECORD SHOWS
WHO THEY ARE.
THEY ARE ANTIBLACK.
THEY ARE ANTI PALESTINIAN.
THEY ARE RACIST
.
THERE IS NO WAY YOU CAN SAY
THIS MUCH TO ANYONE AND SAY
THEY ARE NOT RACIST, THEY ARE
RACIST BUT A RACIST BONE HAS
BEEN SAID AND THEIR ACTIONS
SHOW WE WILL NOT BE FOOLED BY
YOU, MR. MAYOR, WHEN I CALL YOU
A PHONY IT'S BECAUSE I KNOW WHO
YOU ARE AND WHAT YOU HAVE DONE
AND YOU ARE A PHONY, MR. MAYOR.
AND WHEN YOU SAY DIVERSITY YOUR
VOICE SHAKES BECAUSE YOU
YOURSELF DON'T BELIEVE YOURSELF
WHEN YOU SAY YOU ARE NOT A
RACIST RACIST.
MR. MAYOR MAYOR TAYLOR, YOU ARE
A RACIST.
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE ARE DYING
EVERY DAY WITH THE BILLIONS
DOLLARS OF TAX DOLLARS THAT THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT HAND
OVER TO ISRAEL.
CHILDREN VALUE EVERY DAY NEEDS
AMERICA HERE NEEDS IT AND SHE
TOLD ME THAT SHE KNOWS THAT
PALESTINIAN CHILDREN ARE DYING
.
>> MISS BRIGGS, WHICH I SPOKE
TO A FEW MINUTES A FEW WEEKS
AGO, SHE SAID SHE KNOWS THAT I
AM RIGHT WHEN I SAY BLACK
CHILDREN PAYING WITH YOUR TAX
DOLLARS, SHE SAYS YES, I KNOW
AND I SUPPOSE THAT IF SHE KNOWS
EVERYONE ELSE DOES KNOW TO
LISTEN TO THE NEWS .
THEY LISTEN TO WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
>> SO THIS PEOPLE ARE RACIST
AND BELIEVE THEM.
>> THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS FOR CHERI
DUCKWORTH
SHAY DUCKWORTH CALL
HER PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
SEVEN THREE SIX GO AHEAD DENHA
I REALLY DIDN'T KNOW WHAT TO
SAY TO YOU TONIGHT.
IT'S HARD TO HEAR PEOPLE THINK
ABOUT THE BLM THAT IS IT DOES
ON THE GROUND BECAUSE IT'S SO
MUCH MORE THAN THAT.
>> THOSE WORDS ARE STILL LUCKY
TO BE IN THAT PARK BECAUSE THAT
IS WHERE WE WERE PUSHED OUT.
THAT IS WHERE IT'S GENTRIFIED.
THAT IS WHERE OUR DESTINY HAS
ALMOST BEEN ERASED AND ON THE
DAY OF THE DESECRATION TO GET
THERE TO BE TREATED THAT WAY BY
THE POLICE AND EVEN BY A PARK
FAN, SOME OF THEM IT JUST SHOWS
THAT YOU ALL HAVE MAJOR WORK TO
DO THIS TIME TO LEAN IN.
I HAD A WHOLE SPEECH IN FRONT
OF ME THE GOD OF LEADING ME
ANOTHER WAY IT IS TIME FOR YOU
ALL TO STAND UP FOR THE VALUES
THAT NEED TO BE STAND FOR THE
WAY THAT YOU ARE DOING THINGS,
THE WAY THAT YOU ARE TREATING
SOME PEOPLE, THE WAY YOU ARE
PUSHING SOME PEOPLE OUT AND
TREATING BLACK FOLKS LIKE THEY
ARE THE HELP TO COME OVER AND
BUILD YOUR ECONOMY BUT YOU
CAN'T EVEN MAKE IT AFFORDABLE
FOR THEM TO LIVE FOR US TO LIVE
HERE.
IT'S TIME FOR REPARATIONS AND
NOT HOW YOU SAY HOW WE SAY IT'S
A MUCH BIGGER THAN THE MURAL.
IT'S MUCH BIGGER THAN IT'S
SIMPLE GRAFFITI.
>> IT'S MUCH BIGGER THAN THAT.
IT'S ABOUT YOU ARE DOING THE
RIGHT THING.
SO I ASKED YOU ON TONIGHT'S WE
PUT CAMERAS AT BOTH OF THOSE
SITES BUT ALSO KIND OF DEEP IN
THE WORK.
I NEED YOU ALL TO COME TO THE
GETTING REAL ABOUT THE WORKSHOP
TIM WISE AND LEAD IS YOUR MICRO
THAT SOME OF YOU GET BLACK
PEOPLE.
IT'S TIME FOR YOU TO BE
ANTI-RACIST.
YOU PUT YOUR MONEY WHERE YOUR
MOUTH IS AND I SAY THAT ALL DUE
RESPECT.
>> YES, THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
.
ALEX LOWE, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI, THIS IS ALEX THOUGH CALLING
IN FROM SOUTH SOUTHEAST EAST.
I NEVER WANT TO SPEAK ON A FEW
TOPICS WHICH LEAVE ME VERY
LITTLE TIME TO SPEAK WITH
EUPHEMISMS BUT I'LL TRY TO
AGREE TO START I WANT TO ECHO
THE THOUGHTS OF DOCTOR.
>> SHE IS ABSOLUTELY CORRECT.
>> SECOND, I WANT TO I THINK
HOUSE MEMBERS GASP EDWIN DENHA
HARRISON WATSON AND GESHE BUT
SPONSORING THEIR RESOLUTION TO
DESIGNATE SOUTHEASTER PARK AS
THE 2024 BICENTENNIAL THIS IS
BOTH A WELL USED AND VERY
UNDERVALUED BY THE CITY AND I
HOPE THAT WE CAN CHANGE NEXT
I'D LIKE TO ASK THE CITY TO
MODIFY THE FISCAL YEAR TO REACH
TWENTY FOUR BUT FIRST WE NEED
TO REDIRECT SOME OF THAT POLICE
BUDGET TO UNANDERRA FUNDS.
THERE'S A ONE POINT SEVENTY
FIVE FTE INCREASE FOR THE
POLICE.
LET'S GET THAT RESPONSE
INSTEAD.
>> ADDITIONALLY, THERE'S EIGHT
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ON THE
BUDGET FOR THIS ENTIRE THIS
THIS IS GREAT BUT I THINK THAT
WE SHOULD DIRECT THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT TO PURCHASE A MUCH
SMALLER FIRE TRUCK LIKE THIS AT
FIRST STARTING TO SEE IN CITIES
LIKE SAN FRANCISCO AND LONDON
AND TOKYO THE THE CURRENT ONES
THAT WE'VE GOT ARE MASSIVE
OF ALL THIS SIZE AND DO NOT FIT
ON PROPERLY LINSCOTT SCALE
STREETS WHICH JUST FORCES MORE
IMPERMEABLE ASSERTIVENESS IN
AND NEW DEVELOPMENT JUST
BECAUSE THE ONLY THE ONLY FIRE
TRUCKS THAT ARE AVAILABLE ARE
THESE MONSTROSITIES.
>> AND FINALLY I WANT TO TALK
ABOUT PUDI ON I HOPE THAT THAT
THIS PASSES BUT THE FACT THAT
THIS HAS TO BE APPROVED SHOWS
THAT OUR ZONING IS NOT WORKING,
THAT THIS SHOULD NOT BE A
PRIORITY.
>> THIS SHOULD BE A RIGHT
DEVELOPMENT.
LET'S FIX OUR ZONING SO THAT
MORE DEVELOPMENTS LIKE THESE
CAN HAPPEN BY RIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JEFF HAYNER
.
GOOD EVENING.
CITY COUNCIL.
JUST BRIEFLY ON THE AGENDA TO
SPEAK ABOUT THE ENACTMENT
OF RESOLUTION OUR TWENTY TWO
THREE SIXTY THREE SIX MONTHS
AGO THIS BODY AND FIVE PEOPLE
WHO ARE SITTING HERE TONIGHT
VOTED IN FAVOR OF A RESOLUTION
DIRECTING OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR TO INVESTIGATE
THE ESTABLISHMENT IN FUNDING
OF AN OFFICE OF THE
OMBUDSPERSON FOR THE CITY
OF BANABA WHICH I THINK WOULD
TAKE CARE OF A LOT OF THE
CONCERNS THAT PEOPLE OF THE
COMMUNITY HAVE ABOUT THE POOR
CUSTOMER SERVICE HERE AT CITY
HALL AND THAT'S NOT ME MAKING
SOMETHING UP.
IT'S IN YOUR REPORTS IF YOU
READ THEM AND RESOLUTION THAT
WAS PASSED BY THE BODY RESOLVE
THAT THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
BROUGHT BACK THESE FINDINGS AT
A REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING PRIOR
TO THE FINAL PORTION OF THE
BUDGET WHICH IS TONIGHT AND
THAT DIDN'T HAPPEN AS FAR AS I
KNOW.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYTHING ABOUT
THAT AND I DON'T SEE A
PLACEHOLDER IN THE BUDGET THAT
WE HAD.
I KNOW THERE'S POTENTIALLY LIKE
SOME SHORT MEMORIES ON HERE BUT
ONE ONE EFFORT OF THIS BODY
SHOULD BE TO SEE WHAT THE
PREVIOUS BODY HAD TO DO AND
THERE SHOULD BE SOME EFFORT AT
CONTINUITY ESPECIALLY AND IT'S
SOMETHING THAT'S FOR THE GOOD
OF THE WHOLE COMMUNITY.
SO WE'LL WRITE IT OFF THE SHORT
MEMORIES AND HOPE THAT YOU HAVE
THIS OPPORTUNITY TO CHANGE AND
GET THAT FORWARD TONIGHT.
OTHERWISE WE'RE GOING TO WRITE
IT OFF TO THE CONSIDERATIONS
THAT MAYBE THIS BODY ISN'T
TRUSTWORTHY.
NOW I GOT A CHUCKLE WHEN I
HEARD THE MAYOR STAND HERE AND
SAY THAT WE STAND FOR CONSTANT
EXPRESSIONS OF PLURALISM AND
WHEN I SPOKE AT THE LAST
MEETING I WAS NOT UNFORTUNATELY
INTERRUPTED BY THESE GOOD
ADVOCATES BEHIND ME TO SPEAK
ABOUT NO US MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL AND I DO NOT SUPPORT
MILITARY AID ISRAEL AND I WOULD
CALL FOR IT MYSELF.
I DO NOT SUPPORT MILITARY AID
TO ANY COUNTRY AND THE UNITED
STATES HAS BEEN HANDING OUT 12
BILLION DOLLARS OR SO EVERY
YEAR FOR THE LAST DECADE THAT
WE KNOW ABOUT IN DIRECT
PURCHASES OR FUNNELED THROUGH
THIRD PARTIES AND ESSENTIALLY
WHAT THE UNITED STATES DOES
WITH ITS MONEY IN ISRAEL OR ANY
OTHER COUNTRY IS PROP UP THE
SMALL ARMS INDUSTRIES.
>> AND SO WHEN I GO DOWNTOWN
AND I SEE THE MOMS DEMAND
ACTION AGAINST FIREARMS OUT
THERE AND I SAY MOMS SHOULD BE
DEMANDING ACTION AGAINST ALL
MILITARY AID ANYWHERE BECAUSE
ALL THAT IS DOING IS PROPPING
UP OUR SMALL ARMS INDUSTRIES.
WE SEND BILLIONS AND BILLIONS
OF ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION,
MILLIONS ROUNDS OF AMMUNITION,
EVERYTHING ALL THOSE DISGUSTING
AND THAT'S JUST WHAT WE KNOW
ABOUT THE OVERT OPERATIONS SO
THAT THIS BODY CAN'T COME
FORWARD AND MAKE A GENERAL
STATEMENT AGAINST WAR IF YOU'RE
NOT WORKING FOR PEACE, IF ONE
ISN'T WORKING FOR PEACE, WHAT
ARE WE WORKING FOR HERE?
IT'S THE BASIS OF EVERYTHING
AND ON THIS DAY AND MAY 15TH
THAT'S ESPECIALLY SO AND SO I
WANT TO APOLOGIZE TO THE
PALESTINIAN COMMUNITY FOR NOT
TAKING MY OPPORTUNITY WHAT I
SAID AT THAT TABLE TO BRING
FORWARD RESOLUTION.
BUT AS THESE FOLKS HAVE BEEN
POINTING OUT FOR SOME YEARS,
YOU CAN SEE WHAT I WOULD HAVE
GONE UP AGAINST THERE.
SO I DOUBT THAT IT WOULD HAVE
EVEN BEEN DISCUSSED.
NOW I GOT TO COMMENT ON
SOMETHING.
WE GOT A BIG CALL TO DEFUND THE
POLICE WHAT THE AVERAGE POLICE
DEPARTMENT IS TO POINT FOR
PEOPLE FOR EVERY THOUSAND
RESIDENTS WE HAVE ONE TWO POINT
FOUR OFFICERS, ONE OFFICER FOR
EVERY THOUSAND RESIDENTS THIS
CITY ONLY HAS NINETY SEVEN
POLICE OFFICERS.
OK, THEY'RE COMPLAINING ABOUT
THE STATE THE POLICE STATE.
YES, STATE POWER IS A DANGER.
WELL THEN NO MORE MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL OR ANYBODY ELSE.
GET RID OF THE STATE POWER IF
YOU WANT TO FUND THE POLICE
BACK IN THE ARMS OUT OF OUR
COMMUNITY AND OUT OF THE WORLD.
>> THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
SHERIFF CLAYTON
.
SHERIFF CLAYTON, PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AN EIGHT NINE THREE
CRESTAR SIX ON MEET YOUR PHONE
IN HERE.
>> YES, WE CAN WITH I'LL BE
BRIEF DOWN DINOSAURS WATCH MY
KIND FOR THE LAST FOUR AND A
HALF YEARS AND I WANT TO SPEAK
TO SUPPORT I THINK A RESOLUTION
THAT YOU WILL ENTERTAIN TODAY
THE AMENDMENT TO APPROPRIATE
FOUR HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS
IN FISCAL YEAR 2020 OR RELATED
TO THE MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX TO
SUPPORT COMPREHENSIVE PERMANENT
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES IN CASE
OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FOR
RETURNING CITIZENS
.
>> I THINK WE ALL CAN AGREE
THAT OUR GOAL IS TO CREATE
COMMUNITY ONE AS PART OF OUR
MISSION STATEMENT THE IS THE
FIRST PART BUT YOU CAN HAVE A
WORLD WHERE SAFETY THE
INITIATIVE WELCOME AND WE KNOW
WELL YOU'VE GOT ONE INDIVIDUAL
ACCOUNT AND WHEN WE THINK ABOUT
ONE THE MAJORITY IF NOT ALL
OF OUR COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND
NEIGHBORHOOD MEMBERS ARE
PHYSICALLY, PSYCHOLOGICALLY,
EMOTIONALLY HEALTHY.
WE KNOW FOOD INSECURITY AND
HOUSING INSECURITY IS NOT A
CHALLENGE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
WELCOMING THESE HAPPEN WE ARE
ALWAYS TRANSPORTATION THAT
HAPPENS WHEN WE HAVE
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT ARE TESTED.
WE CAN GET AT TIMES AND WE HAVE
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE KNOW THE
PEOPLE THAT ARE OUTSIDE DON'T
GET IMPACTED BY IT BUT THOSE
THAT EVERYBODY SHOULD HAVE HOPE
AND THE OPPORTUNITY TO BE A
CONTRIBUTING MEMBER.
OBVIOUSLY WE KNOW THE IMPACT
OF INCARCERATION ON FOLKS AND
HOW IT SOMETIMES CAN DERAIL
THEM FROM REALIZING THEIR OWN
POTENTIAL I THINK FOR HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS AS A RESULT
EXCISE TAXES, A SMALL
INVESTMENT TOWARDS WE HOPE TO
BE CONTINUED EFFORTS TO PUT
PEOPLE ON THE PATH TO
CONTRIBUTE TO THE COMMUNITY
MAKING OUR COMMUNITIES SAFER
AND MAKING OUR COMMUNITY WELL.
SO I THE SUPPORT OF THE
RESOLUTION HOPEFULLY.
>> THANK YOU VERY THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STOLLBERG
.
TOM STALBERG, PHONE NUMBER FIVE
THREE FOUR.
>> GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD.
I'M CALLING FROM YOUR TOWN IN
AUBURN AND I'D LIKE TO WEAR
DIFFERENT HATS TONIGHT AS I
OFTEN DO ALSO I'D LIKE TO TALK
ABOUT IT FOR THE COMMISSION'S
RECOMMENDATION.
>> I'LL SUPPORT YOUR GREINER'S
FAUX PAS PEOPLE IN THE EQUATION
BETWEEN RENTERS AND LANDLORDS
AND LANDLORDS HAVE WALKED
AROUND I GUESS THE NEW LAWS FOR
ATTACKING RENTERS ARE GOING TO
NEED ITERATIONS.
>> SO PLEASE DO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION AND THE
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM WEAKNESS
AND OTHER CORPORATES ALSO THE
RENTERS COMMISSION.
>> I THINK I NEED TO BE FOR
BOTH BECAUSE THE VENICE
COMMISSION HAS ADVOCATED FOR
SUSTAINABILITY AS HAS THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION AND
THE ENERGY COMMISSION AND I
HAVE RESOLUTION BEFORE YOU GET
NATURAL GAS FOR HEATING AND FOR
APPLIANCES AND I'M SURE YOU
READ THE DETAILS OF THOSE
VARIOUS RESOLUTIONS WHATEVER WE
DO WE MUST DO SOMETHING MORE
THAN WHAT WE CURRENTLY DO AND
WE MUST DO SO AS WE ASK OF YOU,
PLEASE TREAT THIS WITH A GREAT
URGENCY GETTING A DECLARED
EMERGENCY AND AS WE SPEAK WITH
EQUAL URGENCY, IMPLEMENT CARROT
AND STICK MEASURES TO PROMOTE
SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION OF A
LAMBERG PROPERTY MULTIPLE
SMALLER PROPERTIES NOT ANY
LARGE PROJECTS.
>> WE'RE TRYING TO IMPLEMENT
VARIOUS THINGS AND LEARNING AS
WE GO.
>> I JUST READ AN ARTICLE TODAY
THAT TALKS ABOUT WASTE THAT CAN
OVERCOME SOME OF THE HURDLES WE
DO TAKING IN SPECIES AND HOW TO
IMPLEMENT A RESOURCE HE PUMPS
INTO OUR PROPERTIES.
>> WE'RE DOING WHAT WE CAN AND
THEN A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE DOING
THAT AND CERTAINLY WHAT THEY
CAN AND CITIZENS GROUPS ARE
DOING THAT THEY CAN TO EDUCATE
OURSELVES AND TO IMPROVE WHAT
WE HAVE IN TERMS OF OUR
EXISTING HOUSING.
IT IS ESSENTIAL FOR OUR NEW
HOUSING STOCK TO NOT PUT US
INTO A HOLE THAT WE CANNOT IF
WE'RE GOING TO MEET OUR FUTURE
GOALS BY 2030.
THE PLACE THIS IN THOSE
RESOLUTIONS ALSO I'M FEEL FROM
MY DEVELOPERS HAVE THEY WANTED
SOMETHING OF COURSE TO
RECOMMEND TO THE DISTRICT
DENIED THAT THIS IS A
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> THE PROPER PROCESS WILL BE
REVISED TO PLAN FOR AT LEAST
THAT AREA PRIOR TO CONSIDERING
IT IS NOT SOMETHING THAT
DOESN'T HAPPEN.
>> YOU NEED TO DO IT FOR THE
NOT FOR AN INDIVIDUAL PROPERTY.
ONE PROPERTY OF THE CHILD I
KNOW MY PUBLISHER I'VE
EXPERIENCED THAT AS A DEVELOPER
.
I HAD A GOOD PROJECT.
IT DIDN'T MEET THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN I WAITED FOR
THE COMMUNITY A REVISED
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THEN
THEY ACTED AS MAYBE THEY LIKE
THE PROJECT LIKE PROJECT WORK
FOR EVERYBODY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BRANDON
DEMCHUK
.
I COUNSEL BRANDON, A DEMOCRAT
FROM WEST LARRY TOWN IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'M HERE TO ASK YOU TO APPROVE
C1 I'M ALSO KNOWN AS THE SEVEN
TO ONE SOUTHPAWS PUDI IF
CONSTRUCTED THIS WILL REPLACE A
FIFTY UNIT RUNDOWN APARTMENT
BUILDING AND PARKING LOT WITH A
DEVELOPMENT THE SEVEN HUNDRED
AND THIRTY THREE BEDROOMS, A
COUPLE HUNDRED BIKE PARKING
SPOTS AND EVEN SOME RETAIL.
IT'S AN ALL ELECTRIC BUILDING
JUST LIKE WE'VE REQUESTING FROM
DEVELOPERS AND WILL PROVIDE
FOUR POINT SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING
FUND DESPITE BEING LESS THAN A
BLOCK FROM OTHER DENSE HOUSING
NEAR CAMPUS AND ADVANCING
COUNCIL STATED GOALS
OF BUILDING ENVIRONMENTALLY
FRIENDLY MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS
TO HELP ALLEVIATE THE HOUSING
CRISIS.
THE STAFF REPORT RECOMMENDED
AGAINST APPROVAL AND PLANNING
WAS SPLIT SIX TO ONE IN FAVOR.
I ATTENDED THE MEETING AND READ
THE DOCUMENTS AND THE
OBJECTIONS SEEM TO BE THAT THE
PROJECT WOULDN'T BE APPROPRIATE
FOR THE AREA BY THE LETTER
OF EXISTING COUNCIL POLICY.
MAYBE THAT'S TRUE BUT IT FEELS
LIKE IT FITS TO ME ON A RECENT
BIKE RIDE THROUGH THE AREA I
STOPPED IN FRONT OF THE PARKING
AREA OF THE EXISTING BUILDING
AND I CAN SEE A NUMBER
OF TALLER BUILDINGS WITHOUT
REALLY EVEN HAVING TO SQUINT.
SEVEN STORY PARKING STRUCTURE
IS BASICALLY ACROSS THE STREET
AND THERE ARE SIMILAR TALL
BUILDINGS ANOTHER HALF A BLOCK
AWAY.
THE BUILDING WOULD FIT THE AREA
JUST FINE.
I HOPE COUNCIL APPROVES THIS
PRETTY TODAY BUT IF YOU DO THIS
TELLS ME THAT THERE IS A
MISMATCH BETWEEN WHAT COUNCIL
AND STAFF AND PLANNING BELIEVES
IS OUR POLICY ON BUILDING DENSE
HOUSING CLOSE TO DOWNTOWN ON
CAMPUS EVERY TIME THERE'S A
MISMATCH LIKE THIS I THINK IT'S
WORTH EXAMINING IF THERE ARE
SIMPLE POLICY CHANGES WE CAN
MAKE BEFORE DOING THE ENTIRE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN TO SET
REASONABLE EXPECTATIONS FOR
THESE SORTS OF PROJECTS, I
DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT WOULD LOOK
LIKE IN DETAIL BUT I HOPE THAT
THERE'S SOMETHING SHORT TERM WE
CAN DO AKIN TO A QUICK BUILD
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT THAT
DOESN'T REQUIRE YEARS
OF PROCESS TO IMPLEMENT DOING
THESE AS ONE OF THESE IS PRETTY
INEFFICIENT.
THERE'S GOT TO BE A BETTER WAY
.
PLEASE SET SOME KIND OF POLICY
SO THAT WE GET WHAT WE WANT WE
NEED AND ASK YOURSELVES WHY DID
THIS HAVE TO BE APPROVED EVERY
TIME YOU SEE ONE OF THESE COME
THROUGH?
THANKS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS CATHY
BORRUS
CATHY BORRUS RUNNING AND
SIX FOUR FOR A STAR AT YOUR
PHONE.
>> GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CATHY WIRTH.
I LIVE AT 176 CHARLTON IN THE
FIFTH WARD.
I AM CONCERNED ABOUT THE MARKET
RATE HOUSING THAT COULD BE
BUILT ON THE PLAZA AND THE
PARKING LOT OF CITY HALL AS
PROPOSED ON APRIL 17TH BY THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR AS PART
OF THIS YEAR'S CITY BUDGET
SOMETHING YOU WILL VOTE ON
TONIGHT ACCORDING TO THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS COMMENTS AT THE
MOST RECENT CAMPUS
ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
MEETING THIS PROPOSED LUXURY
HOUSING PROJECT COULD BEGIN TO
MOVE FORWARD TOMORROW.
>> YES, TOMORROW UNLESS SOMEONE
ASKS CITY COUNCIL TO MAKE THE
MOTION TO AMEND THE BUDGET.
I HAVE MANY QUESTIONS ABOUT
THIS PROJECT PROPOSED BY THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR, PROBABLY
OTHER MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC DUE
TO WHAT MY MOST NAGGING
QUESTION IS IS WHAT ARE THE
ESTIMATES OF BUILDING CITY
OWNED LUXURY HOUSING AS A
SOURCE OF CITY REVENUE IN A
CITY THAT SO BADLY NEEDS
AFFORDABLE HOUSING?
>> AN EARLIER COMMENTER POINTED
OUT THAT WE ALREADY HAVE A LOT
OF LUXURY HOUSING.
>> WE NEED AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
I WOULD VERY MUCH LIKE TO HEAR
ALL CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS WEIGH
IN ON THIS MATTER.
MANY CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS SAY
VERY LITTLE DURING CITY COUNCIL
MEETINGS SO THIS IS A CHANCE TO
MAKE YOUR VOICES HEARD BECAUSE
IF YOU REMAIN SILENT YOUR
CONSTITUENTS COULD INTERPRET
YOUR SILENCE AS SUPPORT FOR THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO BEGIN THE
PROCESS OF PLANNING FOR WHAT HE
DESCRIBES AS HIGH AND MARKET
RATE HOUSING THAT WOULD
GENERATE AS MUCH CASH AS
POSSIBLE.
I ASK ALL CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
ARE YOU IN SUPPORT OF SUCH A
PROPOSAL?
THANK THANK YOU.
ALTHOUGH WE'VE REACHED NUMBER
SIXTEEN ON OUR LIST WE ARE
STILL UNDER THE 45 MINUTE TIME
ALLOTTED FOR PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME AND SO OUR NEXT
SPEAKER IS DANIEL KELLY
.
>> DANIEL KELLY PHONE NUMBER IN
FOUR TO SIX.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
GO AHEAD.
YES.
HI.
MY NAME AND KELLY, DIRECTOR
OF THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY OFTEN THE
TAWANNA CENTER IN DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR.
I'D LIKE TO
EXPRESS MY SUPPORT
FOR AMENDMENT TWO AND THREE
OF THE THREE D AMENDMENT TO
ALLOW US TO BETTER SUPPORT SOME
OF OUR MOST VULNERABLE
NEIGHBORS AND OUR LOCAL
COMMUNITY.
>> THESE RESOURCES ARE
ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT
CONSIDERING WE'RE SEEING BOTH
INCREASES IN BOTH ACUITY AND
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE SEEKING
SERVICES OVER THE PAST YEAR.
>> THIS PAST WINTER ALONE WE
SAW AN INCREASE OF ALMOST 20
PERCENT OF THOSE SPEAKING
OVERNIGHT SHELTER AND NOW
ALMOST 70 PERCENT OF OUR GUESTS
WE SERVE HAVE A DISABILITY MORE
OFTEN THAN NOT BEING A SERIOUS
HELP SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION
WITH MANY COMING OUT OF THE
HOSPITAL OR OTHER SETTINGS.
>> THESE THESE ARE ABOUT TO
TARGET ADDITIONAL RESOURCES TO
RETURNING CITIZENS THOSE
IMPACTED BY THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM HELPING ADDRESS
SYSTEMIC BARRIERS IN THE IMPACT
OF SYSTEMIC RACISM.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT THESE
AMENDMENTS HIGHLIGHT UTILIZING
A TRAUMA INFORMED AS WELL
GIVING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO THE
INCREDIBLY CHALLENGING
CIRCUMSTANCES OUR GUESTS GO
THROUGH EVERY DAY AND THE
IMPORTANCE OF BRINGING AN
EMPATHETIC CLIENT CENTERED
APPROACH THAT FOCUSES ON
ADDRESSING THAT TRAUMA.
>> I DO WANT TO POINT OUT ONE
SPECIFIC ITEM IN AMENDMENT
THREE RECOMMENDING THAT THE
SERVICE POPULATION BE EXPANDED
NOT JUST THOSE WHO ALREADY HAVE
A VOUCHER BUT ALSO TO PROVIDE
SUPPORT FOR THOSE RETURNING
CITIZENS WITH SEEKING OBTAINING
THE DENSIFYING A BASED VOUCHER
THAT WOULD BROADEN THE SERVICE
ARRAY AND I THINK THE VOUCHER
PROCESS IS REALLY HARD TO
NAVIGATE SO PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL SUPPORT ON THE FRONT
END WOULD BE A HUGE BOON.
>> I WANT TO GIVE A SPECIAL
THANK YOU TO COUNCIL MEMBERS
BRIGGS HARRISON FOR REACHING
OUT RECENTLY OVER THE LAST FEW
WEEKS TO EXPLORE WAYS TO BETTER
SERVE SOME OF OUR MOST
VULNERABLE NEIGHBORS AND THANK
THE ENTIRE COUNCIL FOR BRINGING
THESE AMENDMENTS FORWARD TO
SUPPORT SOME OF OUR MOST
VULNERABLE NEIGHBORS HERE IN
OUR COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU, EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON
?
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
LIKE JUST TO TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE DEFACEMENT OF THE
BLACK LIVES MATTER MURAL DOWN
AT WHEELER PARK.
>> UM, BASICALLY I WANT TO
EMPHASIZE THE HARMS AND TRAUMA
CAUSED BY DEFACING THE PHRASE
BUT BLACK LIVES MATTER WITH ALL
LIVES MATTER.
THIS ALTERCATION OF THE
ORIGINAL MESSAGE HAS
SIGNIFICANT CONSEQUENCES AND IT
IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND ITS
IMPACT.
>> THE PHRASE BLACK LIVES
MATTER EMERGED TO SHED LIGHT ON
THE UNIQUE CHALLENGES FACED BY
BLACK INDIVIDUALS IN OUR
SOCIETY.
IT AIMS TO DRAW ATTENTION TO
SYSTEMIC RACISM, VIOLENCE AND
AN INEQUALITY THAT
DISPROPORTIONATELY AFFECT THE
BLACK COMMUNITY BY DEFACING
THIS MESSAGE WITH ALL LIVES
MATTER, THE FOCUS ON THE
SPECIFIC STRUGGLES OF BLACK
PEOPLE IS UNDERMINED AND
DISMISSED.
SUCH AN ALTERCATION NOT ONLY
FAILS TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE
HISTORICAL AND ONGOING
OPPRESSION EXPERIENCED BY BLACK
INDIVIDUALS BUT ALSO PERPETUATE
THE HARMFUL NARRATIVE THAT
DILUTES THE URGENT NEED FOR
CHANGE.
>> IT DISMISSES THE NEED FOR
TARGETED EFFORTS TO ADDRESS
RACIAL INJUSTICES AND
SIDETRACKS CONVERSATION ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC CHALLENGES FACED
BY MARGINALIZED COMMUNITIES.
>> THE DEFACING OF BLACK LIVES
MATTER WITH ALL LIVES MATTER
DISREGARDS THE SYSTEMIC ISSUES
THAT PERSIST AND CONTRIBUTES TO
THE ERASURE OF THE EXPERIENCES
,VOICES AND DEMANDS OF THE
BLACK COMMUNITY.
>> IT PERPETUATES A NARRATIVE
THAT DISREGARDS THE DEEP ROOTED
STRUCTURAL INEQUALITIES AND
REINFORCES THE STATUS QUO.
>> IT IS CRUCIAL TO RECOGNIZE
THE HARMS AND TRAUMA CAUSED BY
DEFACING BLACK LIVES MATTER
WITH ALL LIVES MATTER AND TO
ENGAGE IN CONVERSATIONS THAT
ADDRESS THE SPECIFIC ISSUES
FACED BY BLACK INDIVIDUALS BY
ACKNOWLEDGING AND UNDERSTANDING
THESE CONCERNS, WE CAN WORK
TOWARD A MORE INCLUSIVE AND
EQUITABLE SOCIETY FOR ALL.
>> COUNCILOR WATSON, THANK FOR
THOSE WORDS, COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON.
>> AND YOU KNOW MY HEART FEELS
THE SAME THINGS I WANTED TO
JUST MENTION.
>> I JOINED MISS DUCKWORTH.
HER GROUP SURVIVORS SPEAK AND
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AS WELL
AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS IN
PAINTING THE BLACK LIVES MATTER
MURAL AND GALLET PARK THIS
SUMMER YOU GROWING UP HERE IF
YOU HAD TOLD ME IN HIGH SCHOOL
THAT WE WOULD BE PAINTING SUCH
A MURAL IN A PARK IN ANN ARBOR
I WOULDN'T HAVE BELIEVED YOU.
>> IT WAS POWERFUL TO SEE THE
COMMUNITY COME TOGETHER TO
PAINT THIS MURAL AND ALSO TO
SEE PASSERS BY INQUIRE AS TO
WHAT WE'RE DOING SOME EVEN
EXPLAINING IT TO THEIR
CHILDREN.
I WANT TO THANKS THANK PARK
STAFF FOR TAKING THIS ISSUE
SERIOUSLY AND WORKING QUICKLY
TO CLEAN UP THE GRAFFITI.
>> YOU KNOW, I AS A HAS A
REPRESENTATIVE TO THE PARKS
ADVISORY COMMISSION WE ALL IT
IS IMPORTANT TO SEE
COMMUNICATIONS FROM PARK WHERE
PEOPLE SAID SIMPLY HATE HAS NO
HOME HERE TRANSITIONING A BIT.
I WANTED TO INVITE RESIDENTS
CITYWIDE AND ESPECIALLY IN WARD
TWO TO THE MEMORIAL DAY PARADE
MONDAY, MAY 29TH AT 10 A.M.
PARTICIPANTS WILL LINE UP AT
NINE THIRTY AT GREEN GREENBRIER
PARK.
THE PARADE WILL FINISH AT
GLACIER HIGHLAND PARK AND IT
WILL ALSO INCLUDE AT TEN FORTY
A MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR OUR
MICHIGAN SERVICEMEN AND
SERVICEWOMEN WHO HAVE DIED THIS
YEAR.
>> IT PROMISES TO BE A GREAT
CELEBRATION AND IT ALSO RUNS
THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD I GREW
UP IN.
SO PLEASE JOIN ME FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
REDISH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU BOTH COUNCIL MEMBERS
WATSON AND HARRISON I WANTED TO
TELL EVERYONE THAT THERE IS ONE
MORE VIRTUAL LISTENING SESSION
COMING UP THIS THURSDAY
EVENING, MAY 18TH AT SIX P.M.
TO GATHER COMMUNITY FEEDBACK
ABOUT WHAT IS WHAT SUSTAINABLE
HEATING COULD LOOK LIKE IN ANN
ARBOR.
THIS LISTENING SESSION IS MEANT
TO HELP INFORM CITY STAFF,
NEGOTIATE THE CITY'S HEATING
FRANCHISE REGISTRATION IS
REQUIRED.
YOU CAN REGISTER IF YOU JUST
TYPE HEATING FRANCHISE
LISTENING SESSION TO YOUR
FAVORITE BROWSER IT WILL SEND
YOU TO THE REGISTRATION PAGE.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO ASK YOU IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO HELP OCI AND ITS
NONPROFIT PARTNERS EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITY OF BRINGING A
CITYWIDE REUSABLE TAKEOUT
CONTAINER PROGRAM TO ANN ARBOR.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO DO THAT
THERE WILL BE SEVERAL PUBLIC
WORKSHOPS NEXT MONDAY THROUGH
WEDNESDAY TO REGISTER FOR ONE
OF THOSE WORKSHOPS AND FIND OUT
ALL THE DETAILS OF TIMES IN
PLACES GO TO ZERO WASTE DOG
FORWARD SLASH WORKSHOP FORWARD
SLASH AND I WILL NOTE THAT FREE
ON SITE CHILD CARE WILL BE
AVAILABLE AND I BET IF YOU GO
TO OVERSIZE PAGE YOU CAN FIND
INSTRUCTIONS ON THAT TO I WOULD
ALSO LIKE TO I'M MAKING ALL
THESE PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENTS BUT THAT'S A GOOD
THING.
I WANT TO TELL YOU THAT THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR WANTS TO HEAR
FROM YOU ABOUT HOW TO MAKE THE
VOTING PROCESS CONVENIENT, EASY
TO UNDERSTAND AND ACCESSIBLE TO
ALL WHO WISH TO CAST A BALLOT.
WE WILL BE AS A RESULT OF PROP
TWO ADDING NINE DAYS OF EARLY
VOTING AND YOU CAN TAKE LESS
THAN A MINUTE AND RESPOND TO AN
ANONYMOUS SIX QUESTION SURVEY
THAT WILL BE AVAILABLE THROUGH
MAY 22ND TYPE COMMUNITY
FEEDBACK VOTING IN ANN ARBOR
AND YOU WILL BE ABLE TO FIND
THAT SURVEY AND TAKE IN
RESPONSE TO AN EARLIER PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I'D LIKE TO NOTE THAT WE
LEARNED FROM THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS BUDGET VIDEO
THAT H.R. IS LAUNCHING A
MANAGEMENT FELLOWS PROGRAM WITH
EASTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY
PARTNERING ON A STUDY TO
DETERMINE A NEED FOR AN
OMBUDSMAN OMBUDS OFFICE.
>> AND FINALLY, I'D LIKE TO
NOTE THAT THIS YEAR OUR GENERAL
FUND MANAGERS WILL BE NINE
POINT SIXTY SIX MILLS, WHICH IS
A 25 PERCENT REDUCTION FROM THE
TWELVE POINT FIVE MILLS THAT
THEY WERE ORIGINALLY VOTED FOR
SINCE THEIR ADOPTION.
THAT REDUCTION HAPPENS BECAUSE
OF THE HEADLY AMENDMENT AND I'D
LIKE TO NOTE THAT OUR BUDGET IS
BALANCED THIS YEAR BEAUTIFULLY
BUT WE ARE PROJECTING A
STRUCTURAL DEFICIT BY 2026 SO
THERE MAY BE A NEED TO FIND
WAYS TO RAISE TAX REVENUES
THROUGH CREATING MARKET RATE
HOUSING GOT MEMBERS BECAUSE HE
HAD ONE SONG IN HER DENHA
COUNCILMAN KAZULIN THANK YOU
MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT I DO
CONDEMN THE RACIST GRAFFITI
THAT HAS BEEN WRITTEN ON THE
BLACK LIVES MATTER MURAL THAT
TWO PARKS NOW AND IN THAT VEIN
I WANTED TO POINT OUT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER CYNTHIA HARRISON
WENZHONG SONG CHRIS WATSON AND
MYSELF ARE HAVING A JOINT
EQUITY FOCUSED COFFEE HOUR ON
MAY 21ST FROM ONE TO THREE
WHEELER PARK AND WE WELCOME
EVERYONE TO ATTEND COUNCIL
RUSSELL, SOME PREVIEW FOR OUR
NEXT MEETING IN JUNE WILL BE
SOMETHING I'M REALLY, REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT IS SOME PROGRESS
ON THE UPI PROGRESS PROJECT
THAT WE HAD FUNDED THROUGH ARPA
FUNDING LAST YEAR.
THEY'LL BE MOVING AHEAD FOR
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
IT'S A CONTRACT WITH YOU
AGAINST POVERTY SOLUTIONS.
>> HOPEFULLY WE CAN GIVE SOME
COMMITTEE MEMBERS SOME RELIEF
IN THE COMING YEAR.
>> WE'LL ALSO HAVE A RESOLUTION
DIRECTING PLANNING TO
PRIORITIZE REZONING OF PLYMOUTH
IN WASHINGTON TO TAKE ONE MANY
THANKS TO PLANNING STAFF AND
LISA LISA DISH AND OTHERS FOR
YOUR PATIENCE ON THIS AS WE HAD
TALKED ABOUT THIS SINCE THE
BEGINNING OF MAY BUT WITH
BUDGETING BEING BUDGETING AND
MORE BUDGETING
WE'VE HAD TO
PUSH THIS TO JUNE I THINK
WITHOUT ANY REAL IMPACT AS TO
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
>> AND LASTLY, YOU KNOW, WE HAD
SOME DISCUSSIONS HERE IN PUBLIC
COMMENTS ON GLOBAL CONFLICTS
AND SUFFERING AND TRAUMA AND IN
THE COMMUNITY.
>> I REALLY URGE YOU ALL TO
CONSIDER WHO WELL, I'LL JUST
OFFER MY OWN FAMILY STORY SO I
ACTUALLY BRING MY FATHER TO OUR
MEMORIAL DAY PARADE CELEBRATION
IN OUR IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
BECAUSE MY FATHER WAS A MEDIVAC
PILOT FOR THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE
AIR FORCE AND ESCAPE THE DAY
SAIGON FELL.
SO MY FAMILY HAS A HISTORY
OF FIGHTING COMMUNISTS.
MY MOTHER HAD TO ESCAPE
COMMUNIST IN LAOS UNDER GUNFIRE
AND WAS IN A PRISON CAMP.
>> SO WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
MULTIGENERATIONAL IMPACTS
OF TRAUMA AND WAR WITH MY
PARTICULAR FAMILY, WITH THE
FRENCH, THE JAPANESE AND THE
CIVIL WAR IN VIETNAM, I CAN
TELL YOU THAT THIS COMMUNITY
FEELS THE CONSEQUENCES OF THAT
THROW OVER GENERATIONS.
SO WHEN IT COMES UP TO HERE IN
THIS SPACE NOW I THINK IT'S
UNFORTUNATE BECAUSE CLEARLY
THOSE CONVERSATIONS HAVEN'T
HAPPENED IN COMMUNITY BEFORE
THEY COME HERE BECAUSE IF YOU
WANT TO SPEAK TO FEDERAL THINGS
GO TO THE FEDERAL BUILDING.
WE ARE NOT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT, WE'RE NOT FOREIGN
RELATIONS.
WE'RE NOT EVEN MODEL U.N. BUT
WE DO CARE FOR OUR NEIGHBORS.
WE DO CARE FOR BIPAC COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO ARE SUFFERING HERE
WITH HISTORIES THAT THEY BRING
FROM ELSEWHERE.
AND I'M SO THANKFUL TO THE
AGENCIES AND COMMITTEE MEMBERS
WHO UPLIFT THEIR STORIES AND
THEIR VOICES AND TRY TO RELIEVE
THE SUFFERING AS MUCH AS THEY
CAN.
BUT THE COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
OH I'M SORRY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DO WANT TO THANK MY
COLLEAGUES WHO ALREADY SPOKE
OUT ABOUT THIS BUT I ALSO
JOINED IN PAINTING ONE OF THE
BLACK LIVES MATTER MURALS IN
OUR COMMUNITY LAST SUMMER AND
I'M INCREDIBLY DISAPPOINTED
SADLY NOT SURPRISED THAT RACISM
CONTINUES TO REAR ITS UGLY
HEAD.
IT IS EXACTLY WHY THESE MURALS
AND THEIR MESSAGE AGAIN I SAY
BLACK LIVES MATTER IS SO
IMPORTANT AND I'M GRATEFUL THAT
OUR COMMUNITY EMBRACED THAT AND
I JUST WANT TO EXPRESS MY
GRATITUDE TO OUR PARK STAFF FOR
TAKING SERIOUSLY AND QUICKLY
REMOVING HATE SPEECH FROM THE
MURALS AND MAKING SURE THAT
THIS CONTINUES TO BE A
COMMUNITY GATHERING SPACE FOR
FOR ALL OF US.
>> I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT MANY FOLKS IN WARD THREE
AND POTENTIALLY OTHER PARTS
OF THE CITY HAVE BEEN
EXPERIENCING INTERMITTENT
INTERNET SERVICE OUTAGES AS
COMCAST CONTINUES TO MAKE
UPGRADES TO ITS NETWORK
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
SOME RESIDENTS IN SOUTHEASTERN
IOWA HAVE EXPERIENCED AS MANY
AS FIVE OUTAGES OVER THE LAST
FEW WEEKS.
I CONTACTED COMCAST THIS WEEK
TO INQUIRE WHETHER THOSE
RESIDENTS WOULD BE CREDITED FOR
THESE SERVICE OUTAGES AND WAS
TOLD THAT CREDITS ARE NOT
AUTOMATIC.
SO RESIDENTS WHO WANT TO
REQUEST A CREDIT NEED TO VISIT
XFINITY DOTCOM SUPPORT STATUS
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE AN AUTO
CALCULATED CREDIT ADDED TO
THEIR ACCOUNT BASED ON THE
LENGTH OF THEIR OUTAGE.
AND SO I WANTED TO ENCOURAGE
RESIDENTS TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF THAT.
IF YOU'RE NOT GETTING SERVICE
YOU SHOULDN'T BE PAYING FOR IT.
I DID URGE THEM TO AUTO ADD
THEM TO TO BILLS IN THE FUTURE
BUT BUT AS OF RIGHT NOW YOU
HAVE TO REQUEST A CREDIT FOR
THE COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
PORT.
>> SO IT'S BEEN TOUCHED BY
ADDRESSED DIRECTLY.
BUT OF COURSE I'D LIKE TO SAY A
WORD OR TWO ABOUT THE THE HATE
SPEECH THAT APPEARED IN OUR
PARKS OVER THE COURSE OF THE
PAST COUPLE.
THESE THESE VANDALISMS ARE
OF COURSE AN ACT OF AGGRESSION
AGAINST AN ARBORS BLACK
COMMUNITY AND AS YOU HEAR WE I
MYSELF AND WE ALL HERE AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE CONDEMNED THEM
CENTURIES OF GOVERNMENT AND
CULTURALLY ENFORCED WHITE
SUPREMACY HAS RESULTED IN
AMERICA WHERE WE'RE BLACK
COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE
VULNERABLE TO TO VIOLENCE AND
DISCRIMINATION AND OUR
COMMUNITIES DECLARATION
OF BLACK LIVES MATTER IS IN
PART OUR EXPRESSION THAT THIS
VULNERABILITY IS NOT ACCEPTABLE
IN BLACK COMMUNITY MEMBERS HERE
IN ANN ARBOR HAVE AND
EVERYWHERE HAVE THE RIGHT TO
LIVE FREE FROM FEAR AND THAT WE
IN ANN ARBOR ARE COMMITTED TO
BEING PART OF THAT SOLUTION AND
THAT THESE EXPRESSIONS OF HATE
THAT WE SEE IN THE PARKS WILL
NOT WILL NOT STOP THE THE
ANTI-RACIST CHANGE THAT WE AS A
AS A COUNCIL AND COMMUNITY ARE
COMMITTED TO TO AFFECT A
ELEKTRA REQUEST CONFIRMATION
THE FOLLOWING APPOINTMENTS THAT
WERE PRESENTED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL ON MAY 1ST.
>> TWENTY TWENTY THREE REGULAR
SESSION TO THE AIRPORT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE GREG FERRIS TO THE
HARBOR PUBLIC ART COMMISSION,
ALISON BUC TO THE BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS.
HUGH FLAC JR. AND DAVID ARNS
DOOR TO THE CABLE
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
ANTHONY RAMIREZ TO THE CITY
PLANNING COMMISSION TO NOW
WATCH SHANNON GIVE RANDALL
SADIR CLARK TO THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITY ISSUES.
MATTHEW SOLOMON DUE TO THE
DESIGN REVIEW BOARD RICHARD
MITCHELL AND TAMARA BURNS TO
THE DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORITY.
ALEXANDRA DYKER TO THE TO THE
ELIZABETH DEAN FUND COMMITTEE
LYNNE NIEBLA AND BROOKS CURTIS
TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION ALEX
SETTLEMENT TO THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
ANNA ERICKSON JAMES DOWNING
AMANDA CARLYLE TO THE HOUSING
BOARD OF APPEALS TODDS LESKIE
TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
JUDY GARBA TO THE HURON RIVER
WATERSHED COUNCIL.
RICHARD NORTON TO LOCAL
GOVERNMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY.
STEVEN REBUNDLE TO THE INTERIOR
PARKS COMMISSION AND MAASDAM TO
THE PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION.
LISA YOUNG TO THE RECREATION
ADVISORY BOARD KURTS BOUBA TO
THE RENTERS COMMISSION.
ROBERT KELLEY AND ZECHARIAH TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
MOLLY KLEINMAN TO THE ZONING
BOARD OF APPEALS DAVID GIVATI
AND I THINK I HAVE SOME MORE
I'D ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT BUY IN SERIAL
THAT WERE PRESENTED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL ON THE MAY 1ST TWENTY
TWENTY THREE REGULAR SESSION TO
THE PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION
KIRI'S PRELUTSKY TO THE
ELIZABETH DENHA FUND COMMITTEE
MOLLY BROOKSHAW TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD, PETER SCOTT SULZBERGER
AND ALAN RABINOWITZ MADE A
MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY COUNSEL
MCCONNELL SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER JOSH DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
THEY ARE APPROVED JUST FOR THIS
MEETING.
OK THANK YOU.
>> OH I'D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION ROSARITA RADCLYFFE
KIMBERLE AND JULIA GOOD AND
FURTHER BY BY RESOLUTION AT OUR
NEXT MEETING TO THE RENTERS
COMMISSION ARTHUR THOMAS WE
HAVE FORCE THE CONSENT AGENDA
MY MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT TO MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER AKMAN SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA ON FAVOR OR OPPOSED THE
CONSENT AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE NO PUBLIC HEARINGS
TODAY THEN WE HAVE BEFORE US
THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF MAY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY THREE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
RAWAT'S AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE MINUTES WHILE FABER
POSED THE MINUTES OUR PROVED WE
HAVE NO AUDIENCE AT SECOND
READING WE HAVE AN AUDIENCE AT
FIRST READING WE WANT AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE ZONING REZONING OF ONE
POINT TWO ACRES FROM OUR FORESE
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL TO PUDI
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
DISTRICT SEVEN TWENTY ONE S
FOREST PUDI ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATION SEVEN
TO ONE S FOREST MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
>> THANK YOU.
SO THIS SITE AT SEVEN TWENTY
ONE S FOREST CURRENTLY CONTAINS
ONE FIVE STOREY FIFTY UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDING WITH SEVENTY
SIX SERVICE SURFACE PARKING
SPACES.
APPROVAL OF THIS ORDINANCE WILL
REZONE THE PROPERTY FROM OUR
FORESE TO PUDI PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT AND WILL PERMIT A
160 FOOT TALL STRUCTURE
CONTAINING 228 RESIDENTIAL
UNITS AND 733 BEDROOMS.
THE PROPOSED STRUCTURE EXCEEDS
THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT IN THE
CURRENT ZONING DISTRICT BY 135
FEET.
THE UNITS PROVIDED WILL BE A
MIX OF STUDIO ONE AND ONE A SIX
BEDROOM UNITS.
THE ZONING ALSO ALLOWS A SMALL
RETAIL SPACE OF LESS THAN 5000
SQUARE FEET.
AS MENTIONED PREVIOUSLY, THE
STAFF PLANNING STAFF
RECOMMENDATION WAS NO AND THE
PLANNING COMMISSION VOTED SIX,
FOUR AND TWO AGAINST THAT VOTE
WARRANTS CONSIDERATION OF THE
PUBLIC BENEFITS AND
RELATIONSHIP OF THE BUILDING TO
THE SURROUNDING CONTEXT.
BUT THIS IS FIRST READING AND I
DON'T INTEND TO LAUNCH A DEBATE
ON THE DETAILS.
I JUST WANT TO GIVE YOU A QUICK
OVERVIEW OF THE FEATURES.
THE PUDI PROVIDES NUMEROUS
SUSTAINABILITY ELEMENTS.
>> THE BUILDING WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
THERE WILL BE NO GAS HOOKUPS
EXCEPT FOR BACKUP GAS
GENERATOR.
THE BUILDING WILL BE LEED
SILVER.
THE DEVELOPER WILL PURCHASE
RENEWABLE ENERGY CERTIFICATES
THAT WILL OFFSET 100 PERCENT
OF THE BUILDING'S ENERGY
CONSUMPTION FOR TEN YEARS.
ROOFTOP SOLAR PANELS WILL
PROVIDE THREE PERCENT OF WHAT
THE BUILDING WILL USE FOR
ENERGY, THE BUILDING OBSERVES,
AND WILL BE REQUIRED TO OBSERVE
KEY TENETS OF PASSIVE HOUSE
PRINCIPLES SUCH AS TO DOUBLE
THE AVERAGE OF CONTINUOUS
INSULATION AND UTILIZE OTHER
MEASURES TO MINIMIZE HEAT LOSS
.
THERE WILL BE JUST 98 VEHICLES
PARKING SPACES PROVIDED ON SITE
TO EV CHARGING STATIONS
INSTALLED IN THE SURFACE SPACES
AND 24 IN THE GARAGE WHICH IS
TWO TIMES WHAT'S REQUIRED.
THERE WILL BE GROUND FLOOR
STORAGE FOR 62 BICYCLES AND AN
ADDITIONAL 135 BICYCLE PARKING
SPACES PROVIDED IN AN ENCLOSED
AREA IN THE LOWER LEVEL PARKING
GARAGE THERE ARE SIGNIFICANT
AFFORDABILITY ELEMENTS
DEREGULATION'S REQUIRE A
MINIMUM OF 15 PERCENT OF THE
TOTAL UNITS BE DEDICATED
IS
AFFORDABLE OR A CONTRIBUTION IN
LIEU OF UNITS THE PETITIONER
HAS CHOSEN TO PROVIDE A CASH IN
LIEU PAYMENT OF FOUR POINT
SEVEN DOLLARS MILLION WHICH IS
NINETY EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS
OVER THE REQUIRED AMOUNT.
>> IN ADDITION TO THAT REQUIRED
CONTRIBUTION PLUS SOME TO THE
CITY'S AFFORDABLE HOUSING FUND,
THE PROJECT WILL ALSO MAKE A
VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION OF 50000
DOLLARS TO THE ANN ARBOR
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
TO BE USED FOR SUSTAINABILITY
UPGRADES TO EXISTING OR
PROPOSED ANN ARBOR HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
PROPERTIES LOCATED IN THE
CENTRAL AREA OF THE CITY.
THE DEBATE ON THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOCUSED FIRST ON WHY
THIS PROPERTY SHOULD BE
APPROVED.
THIS IS ALWAYS JUSTIFIED BY
UNIQUE FEATURES OF THE SITE IN
THE SITE HAS A UNIQUE FEATURE
IN THAT IT IS NEXT DOOR TO AN
URBAN FOREST FRAGMENT.
THE DEVELOPER HAS DONE A SHADE
STUDY AND DESIGNED THEIR MACING
TO PROTECT THAT FRAGMENT THAT'S
WRITTEN INTO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
>> IT ALSO IS NO.
UH HUH I CAN SAY MORE LATER IF
YOU WANT TO KNOW MORE.
>> BUT AGAIN THIS IS FIRST
READING SO WE DON'T HAVE TO GET
INTO IT FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS, THANK
YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST SPOKE TO
OBVIOUSLY THE FACT THAT IT'S
FIRST READING AND ALL OF THE
MANY BENEFITS THAT MAKE THIS
PROJECT VERY APPEALING TO
OBVIOUSLY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND I SUSPECT TO
MANY OF US AROUND THIS TABLE I
DO THINK IT IS INCUMBENT UPON
US WHEN THIS REACHES A SECOND
READING TO ACTUALLY HAVE A
PRETTY ROBUST CONVERSATION ON
THIS.
OBVIOUSLY IT'S NOT VERY OFTEN
THAT WE HAVE A RECOMMENDATION
OF DENIAL BY PLANNING BY OUR
STAFF AND I THINK WE NEED TO GO
INTO DEBATING WHY IF THIS
PROJECT TRULY HAS HAS A
COMMUNITY BENEFITS THAT IT
NEEDS TO TO PASS MUSTER SO JUST
TO READ A LITTLE BIT FROM THE
REPORT IN CASE YOU HAVEN'T HAD
A CHANCE TO PERUSE IT YET AS I
PLAN ON REZONING OF THE PARCEL
FROM OUR FOUR DEPUTIES,
REZONING IS NOT SUPPORTED BY
CITY PLANNING STAFF AND IT
DOESN'T SUPPORT THE PROJECT AS
PRESENTED FOR A FEW REASONS BUT
ONE THE SIZE THE STRUCTURE BUT
ALSO THE FACT THAT IT CAN'T BE
ESSENTIALLY THERE ISN'T AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SCALE DOWN THE
PROJECT AS WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
AS YOU ARE LEAVING A D ONE OR
TWO DISTRICT.
WHAT IS I THINK PERHAPS MOST
NOTABLE FOR ME AS WE TALK ABOUT
THE SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABLE
ELEMENTS IN THIS PROJECT IS
THAT OSSI STAFF ALSO DOES NOT
SUPPORT THE APPROVAL OF THIS
PROJECT AND IT NOTES THAT WHILE
THE LEAD THE LEAD SILVER
CERTIFICATION IS WELCOME, LEED
DOES NOT INHERENTLY MEET THE
STRATEGIC GOALS OF THE EIGHT
ZERO PLAN AND IN SOME INSTANCES
FALLS SHORT OF WHAT IS NEEDED
TO MOVE ANN ARBOR SUCCESSFULLY
TOWARD CARBON NEUTRALITY BY
2030.
THOUGH AS I WILL NOT RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THIS PROJECT IF IT
DID NOT MEET NET ZERO ENERGY
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS, IT IS
RECOMMENDED THAT THE BUILDING
ACHIEVE EITHER PASSIVE HOUSE
CERTIFICATION LIVING BUILDING
CHALLENGE CERTIFICATION LEED
ZERO IN EACH LEED ZERO CATEGORY
CARBON ENERGY WATER OR WASTE.
SO I ENCOURAGE ALL OF US TO
TAKE A GOOD LOOK AT THIS
PROJECT AND FOR THE DEVELOPER
TO TO CONSIDER YOU KNOW WHY
THEY ARE FALLING SHORT ON THESE
OPTIONS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA THANK
YOU MAYOR TAYLOR.
AS A STUDENT I LIVED IN YOU
TOWERS AT THE CORNER OF SOUTH
UNIVERSITY AND SOUTH FOREST
BACK IN MY SOPHOMORE YEAR WHICH
WAS 2005 AND 2006 AT THE TIME I
REMEMBER THAT BUILDING WHICH
WAS CONSTRUCTED IN NINETEEN
SIXTY FIVE WAS THE ONLY TALL
DENSELY POPULATED STUDENT
FOCUSED HOUSING IN THAT AREA
AND IF I WANTED TO LIVE WITHIN
WALKING DISTANCE OF CAMPUS OR
DOWNTOWN MY OPTIONS WERE FAIRLY
LIMITED A FULL YEAR BEFORE I
MOVED IN IN 2004 ALMOST TWENTY
YEARS AGO NOW THE SOUTH
UNIVERSITY AREA ASSOCIATION HAD
ALREADY RECOGNIZED THE NEED FOR
MORE HOUSING, MORE GROWTH IN
THIS AREA AND HAD SUBMITTED A
PROPOSAL TO DO JUST THAT STILL
TOOK ANOTHER FIVE YEARS TO
ADOPT THE TWO D TO ZONING WHICH
BEGAN TO RESHAPE S UNIVERSITIES
CORRIDOR AND BRING MUCH NEEDED
HOUSING GROWTH TO THE AREA.
AND NOW HERE WE ARE IN TWENTY
TWENTY THREE STILL TALKING
ABOUT THE NEED FOR MORE HOUSING
IN CLOSE PROXIMITY TO CAMPUS
AND TO S UNIVERSITY HOUSING
THAT WE DESPERATELY NEED TO
HELP ALLEVIATE OUR ONGOING
HOUSING CRISIS AND THE HOUSING
THAT WILL HELP TO KEEP STUDENTS
WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE
OF THEIR CLASSES DOWNTOWN AND
PUBLIC TRANSIT THAT WILL ALLOW
THEM TO ATTEND THE UNIVERSITY
WITHOUT RELIANCE ON A CAR.
FINALLY WHEN I WAS OUT ON THE
CAMPAIGN TRAIL SPECIFICALLY IN
THE NORTH KOREANS PARK AREA, I
HEARD FROM LONG TERM RESIDENTS
ABOUT THEIR CONCERNS WITH
HOUSING AVAILABILITY IN THE
AREA DUE TO MORE AND MORE
HOUSES BEING GOBBLED UP BY
LANDLORDS TO USE A SHORT TERM
STUDENT RENTALS DRIVING UP
HOUSING COSTS AND IMPACTING THE
LONG TERM UPKEEP AND QUALITY
OF THOSE STRUCTURES.
>> THIS PROBLEM EXISTS EXACTLY
BECAUSE WE AS A CITY AND YES
THE UNIVERSITY WHICH NEEDS TO
OWN THIS PROBLEM AS WELL HAS
NOT KEPT UP WITH THE NEED FOR
MORE STUDENT FOCUSED HOUSING
IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT TO CAMPUS
.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS NOTED,
THERE ARE A FEW ITEMS THAT
STILL COULD BE IMPROVED WITH
THIS PROPOSAL, PARTICULARLY
AROUND THEIR ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACTS AND SUSTAINABILITY
IMPACTS.
BUT I WOULD ALSO BE REMISS NOT
TO MENTION THAT THERE ARE ALSO
SOME EXISTING RENTERS WHO WOULD
BE DISPLACED BY THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
I AM GRATEFUL TO THE DEVELOPER
FOR ENGAGING WITH THE CITY AND
THOSE RESIDENTS TO MINIMIZE
THIS IMPACT AND HELP TO SECURE
ADDITIONAL HOUSING AND RENTAL
ASSISTANCE.
BUT IF MORE CAN BE DONE TO HELP
THOSE INDIVIDUALS, I WOULD
CERTAINLY ENCOURAGE IT.
FINALLY I WILL BE SUPPORTING
ADVANCING FROM FIRST READING
TONIGHT BECAUSE I DO BELIEVE
THAT THIS IS EXACTLY THE
LOCATION WHERE MORE DENSE
STUDENT FOCUSED HOUSING IS
NEEDED BY ADDING SEVEN FORTY
FOUR MORE BEDROOMS IN AN
ALREADY DENSELY POPULATED
MOSTLY STUDENT NEIGHBORHOOD.
THIS WILL ALLOW STUDENTS TO
MOVE CLOSER TO CAMPUS CLOSER TO
THEIR COMMUNITY OF PEERS AND
COULD HELP TO SLOW THE
PROLIFERATION OF STUDENT
HOUSING OUT INTO OTHER
RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS
AROUND THE CITY WHICH CONTINUES
TO DRIVE UP OUR HOUSING COSTS
FOR EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
>> IT IS APPROVED.
DAEWON RESOLUTION TO REAPPOINT
MAZEY WAYING BRUCE BROOKS
CURTIS SARAH RADNEDGE, RITA
MITCHELL AND BRIDGET GRUBERT TO
THE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER SECOND
BY COUNCIL REICHMANN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC ONE ON FAVOR POSED
ITS APPROVED DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO REAPPOINT ELIZABETH RIGGS
AND JASON BOGGS TO THE
GREENBELT ADVISORY COMMISSION A
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISCUSSION
OF DC TO
ON IN FAVOR POSED IT
IS APPROVED.
I WILL NOTE THAT DC ONE WAS
APPROVED OF THE ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
THE SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT DC
THREE RESOLUTION TWO POINT
CHEMICAL WEAPONS AND STEPHANIE
CARTER TO THE INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION MOVED BY COUNCILOR
HARRIS AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBERS SONG DISCUSSION OF DC
THREE ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVE THE ELEVEN COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTED IN
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
THE EIGHT THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC FOR RESOLUTION
TO REAPPOINT NONRESIDENT
ELECTORS TO THE NRA TO ANIBA
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
>> I CAN TAKE MY COUNCILOR
PRIOR DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED
IT IS APPROVE WITH ELEVEN
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS
SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC ONE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR FOR ADJUSTMENTS TO
THE PUBLIC SERVICES AREA
ENGINEERING PUBLIC WORKS SYSTEM
PLANNING WATER TREATMENT UNITS
AND THE FLEET AND FACILITIES
AIRPORT UNIT OF THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR'S OFFICE MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACTION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF ONE
ON
FAVOR POSED THIS ONE IS
APPROVED DSU RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR FY ADJUSTMENTS FOR
THE COMMUNITY SERVICES AREA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DSU
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
I JUST WANTED TO ADD A NOTE ON
PARKS FEES AND WANTED TO RELAY
A CONVERSATION THAT HAPPENED IN
PARKS ADVISORY COMMISSION ABOUT
JUST THE CONTINUED
ACCESSIBILITY OF PARKS
AMENITIES WE WANT TO DO TO MAKE
SURE THAT EXISTING PARKS
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS FOR FOR
FEES FOR THOSE LOW INCOME
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE HAVING
TROUBLE AFFORDING THINGS,
AFFORDING THE FEES TO USE OUR
AMENITIES.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE
ARE BETTER PUBLICIZING THE
SCHOLARSHIPS OPPORTUNITIES
THERE AND MAKING THEM EASIER TO
ACCESS SO THAT THE BRUNT
OF THESE FEES WON'T BE BORNE BY
PEOPLE WITH INCOME PEOPLE
OF LOWER INCOMES.
>> SO THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
WELL IN FAVOR OPPOSED IS
APPROVED D HAS THREE RESOLUTION
TO ADOPT THE ANN ARBOR CITY
BUDGET AND RELATED PROPERTY TAX
RATES FOR FISCAL YEAR TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR MOVE BY COUNCILOR
AND SECOND BY COUNCIL MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THESE
THREE
I'LL NOTE THAT WE HAVE A
SERIES OF AMENDMENTS WHICH HAVE
BEEN INCLUDED IN THE PACKET
ALREADY IN TO MY TO MY
UNDERSTANDING NONE OF THESE
AMENDMENTS KNOCK UP UP AGAINST
EACH OTHER AND SO PERHAPS WE'LL
JUST TAKE THEM IN ORDER.
>> WE'RE NOT OH OH PROPRIO ON
THE ON THE MAY WELL ON THE MAIN
MOTION THEN COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON OH OH
ALL RIGHT.
>> COUNCILOR HARRISON.
YES.
ALL WITH YES.
AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE ACTS
THAT WILL ROLL WITH THAT.
IS THERE A SECOND KATHWARI
COUNCILOR SONG COUNCILOR
HARRISON YOU HAVE THE FLOOR OH
FIRST.
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SPEAK A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE AMENDMENT
NUMBER THREE.
AMENDMENT NUMBER THREE CARRIES
THE POWER TO TRANSFORM OUR
COMMUNITY AN INVESTMENT IN
TRAUMA INFORMED SOCIAL SERVICES
.
THESE SERVICES HAVE SHOWN
EXCEPT EXCEPTIONAL
EFFECTIVENESS PARTICULARLY WHEN
COMPARED TO CONVENTIONAL
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
>> SO WHAT'S THAT TRAUMA
INFORMED SERVICES APART?
IT'S THEIR ABILITY TO
ACKNOWLEDGE, UNDERSTAND AND
ADDRESS TRAUMA THEY ACTIVELY
AVOID TRAUMATIZING INDIVIDUALS
AND FOCUS ON HOLISTIC WELLBEING
RATHER THAN JUST TREATING
SPECIFIC ISSUES.
>> THIS APPROACH LEADS TO
SAFER, HEALTHIER COMMUNITIES
FACILITATING THE REINTEGRATION
REINTEGRATION OF INDIVIDUALS
INVOLVED IN THE CRIMINAL LEGAL
SYSTEM.
>> LEADING ORGANIZATIONS SUCH
AS THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
THE VERA INSTITUTE OF JUSTICE,
URBAN INSTITUTE SUBSTANCE USE,
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICE SERVICES
ADMINISTRATION AND THE PRISON
POLICY INITIATIVE HAVE ALSO
RECOGNIZED AND SUPPORTED THE
USE OF TRAUMA INFORMED
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES.
>> THEIR ENDORSEMENT FURTHER
HIGHLIGHTS THE IMPORTANCE AND
EFFECTIVENESS OF THIS APPROACH
IN FOSTERING POSITIVE OUTCOMES
FOR INDIVIDUALS AND
COMMUNITIES.
>> TRAUMA INFORMED PROGRAMS
ACROSS SECTORS LIKE HOUSING,
EMPLOYMENT, MENTAL HEALTH,
SUBSTANCE SUBSTANCE ABUSE
TREATMENT, EDUCATION AND FAMILY
SUPPORT SERVICES CONSIDER THE
PERVASIVE IMPACT OF TRAUMA AND
INCORPORATE THIS UNDERSTANDING
INTO SERVICE DELIVERY
ULTIMATELY LEADING TO BETTER
OUTCOMES.
>> DATA DEMONSTRATES THE
EFFICACY OF TRAUMA INFORMED
SERVICES WITH STUDIES SHOWING
THAT THESE PROGRAMS CAN REDUCE
RECIDIVISM RATES, IMPROVE
IMPROVE HEALTH OUTCOMES AND
INCREASE EMPLOYMENT RATES.
>> MOREOVER, THE WHITE HOUSE'S
ALTERNATIVE REHABILITATION AND
REENTRY STRATEGIC PLAN OF APRIL
2023 ECHOES OUR BELIEF IN THE
IMPORTANCE OF TRAUMA INFORMED
CARE.
IT HIGHLIGHTS THE TRAUMA
ENDURED WITHIN THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM TRAUMA THAT CAN
LEAD TO SEVERE PHYSICAL AND
MENTAL HEALTH IMPACTS AND
CREATES HURDLES FOR INDIVIDUALS
TRYING TO REINTEGRATE INTO
SOCIETY POST RELEASE OUR
PROPOSED BUDGET AMENDMENT
ALIGNS WITH THE STRATEGIC PLAN
PLAN AND THE SUPPORT
OF REPUTABLE ORGANIZATIONS BY
INVESTING IN TRAUMA INFORMED
SOCIAL SERVICES WE ADDRESS NOT
JUST THE SYMPTOMS BUT THE ROOT
CAUSE OF THE CHALLENGES FACED
BY INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN THE
CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM AND
CONCLUSION THE EFFECTIVENESS
OF TRAUMA INFORMED SOCIAL
SERVICES OVER TRADITIONAL
SUPPORTIVE SERVICES IS
UNDENIABLE.
>> THEY CARRY THE POTENTIAL TO
TRANSFORM LIVES AND COMMUNITIES
.
>> SO I URGE YOU TO CONSIDER
THIS PROPOSAL AND THE POSITIVE
IMPACT IT CAN HAVE ON OUR
COMMUNITY AND TOGETHER LET'S
BUILD A FUTURE WHERE EVERYONE
HAS THE OPPORTUNITY TO HEAL,
GROW AND CONTRIBUTE POSITIVE
POSITIVELY TO OUR SOCIETY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> SO SHOULD I SHOULD I READ
THE RESOLVE CLAUSES OR IS THAT
ARE CONSIDERED THEY ARE ALREADY
THERE ALREADY IN THE SYSTEM SO
OK THEY'RE AMAZING.
I WILL JUST THEY'RE THEY'RE
WORTH READING IF YOU WANT.
>> I MEAN I'M YOUR TIME
COUNSELOR.
>> I'LL READ THEM.
ALL RIGHT.
GO FOR CITY COUNCIL FOUR
HUNDRED THOUSAND OF THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX REBATE
FROM THE GENERAL FUND TO THE
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY FOR
GENERAL FUND OF ANN ARBOR
HOUSING COMMISSION BUDGET AS
FOLLOWS 400000 FOR TRENEMAN
WARM SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
INCLUDING CASE MANAGEMENT
SERVICES PRIORITIZING
INDIVIDUALS IMPACTED BY THE
CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM WITH
TENANT BASE HOUSING CHOICE
VOUCHERS INCLUDING RETURN TO
RETURNING CITIZENS RESOLVE THAT
THE AMOUNTS AUTHORIZED HEREIN
MAY BE USED WITHOUT REGARD TO
FISCAL YEAR THAT HAVE RESOLVED
THAT CITY COUNCIL DIRECTS THE
CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
DISTRIBUTE THE FUNDS TO ENABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
ALLOWING COORDINATION WITH
OTHER PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS AND
DISTRIBUTING THE FUNDS AND THE
MOST EFFECTIVE MANNER POSSIBLE
AND AND THAT SUBSEQUENT TO THAT
DISTRIBUTION ENABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION AND THE
CITY WILL ENTER INTO A GRANT
AGREEMENT DETAILING REPORTING
THE MECHANISM FOR HOW THE FUNDS
WILL BE DISTRIBUTED.
>> I'LL JUST NAME SOME OF THE
RESOLVE SOME OF THE SERVICES
THAT WE'RE LOOKING FOR
INCLUDING SUPPORT SERVICES,
MENTAL HEALTH COUNSELING, PEER
SUPPORT, SUBSTANCE ABUSE
TREATMENT, FINANCIAL
COUNSELING, EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITIES, HEALTH CARE
COORDINATION RESOLVE THAT THE
ENTIRE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION MAY USE UP TO FIVE
PERCENT OF THE AFOREMENTIONED
FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
RELATED TO PROVIDING TRAUMA
INFORMED SUPPORTIVE SERVICES
WITH PRIORITY FOR RETURNING
CITIZENS INDIVIDUALS IMPACTED
BY THE CRIMINAL LEGAL SYSTEM
FOR THAT LAST RESOLVE THAT
REALLY IS IN SUPPORT OF IN OUR
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
NEEDING ACTUAL PEOPLE TO GO ON
THIS AND AND THAT THE PROCESS
ACTUALLY INCLUDES SOME LABOR SO
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION CUSTOMER
WHATSO.
I WANTED TO THANK COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON FOR HER HARD
WORK ON THIS AND FOR BRINGING
HER PERSONAL EXPERIENCE AND
PERSONAL HISTORY TO THIS
ESPECIALLY.
I ALSO LIKE TO I'D ALSO LIKE TO
THANK COUNCIL MEMBERS TOWN
COUNCIL MEMBER GARTSIDE ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR THE COUNCIL
MEMBER CORNELL FOR COSPONSORING
THIS.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE
STRUGGLE WITH AS A CITY IS
PROVIDING SERVICES TO PEOPLE IN
OUR COMMUNITY THAT AREN'T ON
OUR HOUSING ON OUR HOUSING
COMMISSION SITES AND REACHING
PEOPLE WITH SUPPORTIVE
WRAPAROUND SERVICES WHEREVER
THEY MAY BE.
>> AND I THINK THIS YOU KNOW,
THIS IS THIS FUNDING IS
DESIGNED TO FILL THE GAP AND
THESE GAPS HAVE COME INTO FOCUS
WITH THE EXPIRATION OF KAHRIZAK
DOLLARS AND WITH THE MOVEMENT
AWAY FROM KOFU, THE KOFU
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COUNTY AND
INTO THE HUMAN SERVICES
PARTNERSHIP.
WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT WE'RE
CONTINUING TO FUND THE
ORGANIZATIONS PROTECTING THE
MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
OF OF OF THE PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHO ARE MOST
VULNERABLE AND WHO STRUGGLE TO
TO TO TO AFFORD TO BE HERE.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK
EVERYONE AGAIN FOR THEIR WORK
ON IT AND ESPECIALLY TO THANK
JENNIFER HALL BECAUSE IT'S HER
CONNECTIONS AND THE WORK OF THE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
THAT'S ABLE TO GET THESE FUNDS
OUT INTO THE COMMUNITY QUICKLY
AND EFFICIENTLY AND GET IT TO
SUPPORT REAL NEED.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCOUNTS, MEMBER
BREAKS.
I'D LIKE TO ECHO MY SUPPORT AND
THANKS TO COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AND GOZI EDWIN AND
SONG AND CORNELL FOR CRAFTING
THIS.
OBVIOUSLY THIS IS OBVIOUSLY
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT WORK THAT
WE'RE DOING IN IRAQ THAT WE
NEED TO BE DOING IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I HAVE A DEAR FRIEND, A FRIEND
WHO DIED BECAUSE I DIDN'T GET
THE SUPPORT OF SERVICES THAT
SHE NEEDED WHILE HAVING A
TENANT BASED VOUCHER AND HER
HER SONS ARE NOW ORPHANED.
AND SO I'VE SEEN PERSONALLY
THAT THE IMPACTS OF NOT HAVING
THE SUPPORT THAT WE NEED IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
I'M ALSO GLAD TO SEE THAT IN
ADDITION TO BEING ABLE TO USE
THIS FOR TENANT BASED HOUSING
VOUCHERS THAT WE CAN ALSO USE
IT FOR A PROJECT BASED VOUCHERS
BECAUSE I'VE ALSO BEEN SPEAKING
TO FOLKS IN OUR IN OUR HOUSING
SITES WHO ARE ALSO ALSO WISH
THAT THERE WERE MORE SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES AVAILABLE THERE TO SO
ALL AROUND A GREAT AMENDMENT
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MCCONNELL THANK YOU.
>> I'M JUST ADDING TO MY AH MY
COLLEAGUES COMMENTS I WANTED TO
EXPRESS WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON GRATITUDE FOR HALL FROM
US FOR REALLY TALKING THROUGH
SOME OF THE ASPECTS OF THIS AND
BEING THAT GREAT CONNECTION
POINT.
I THINK THAT THE WORK THAT SHE
DOES IS AND HER TEAM DOES IS SO
IMPORTANT IN THE CITY AND I
THINK THAT THIS IS A REFLECTION
IN MY OPINION THIS IS A REAL
REFLECTION OF ONE NOT ONLY THE
NEEDS BUT THE FACT THAT THIS
COUNCIL IS SERIOUS ABOUT
SUPPORTING THOSE AND LOOKING AT
OUR FUNDING IN AN INNOVATIVE
WAY TO MAKE SURE THAT PEOPLE IN
OUR COMMUNITY AREN'T FALLING
THROUGH THE CRACKS.
>> SO THANK YOU, COUNCILOR
GARCIA.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO ECHO THE
SENTIMENTS EXPRESSED.
I WANT TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON FOR BRINGING IN HER
LIVED EXPERIENCE.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS WHAT TRAUMA
INFORMED POLICY-MAKING LOOKS
LIKE WHERE WE CAN BRING IN OUR
OWN LIVED EXPERIENCES AND THINK
ABOUT HOW OUR POLICIES CAN JUST
IMPACT PEOPLE IN A BETTER WAY
AND BE MORE EMPATHY CENTERED.
SO I'M REALLY PROUD OF OUR WORK
HERE AND I JUST WANT TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON AGAIN
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
>> THIS WILL BE A THEME THAT
RUNS FROM YOU THROUGH THIS THIS
AMENDMENT AND INDEED MANY
OF THE OTHERS I TOO WOULD LIKE
TO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON AND THE OTHER
CO-SPONSORS FOR THEIR WORK ON
THIS PARTICULAR AMENDMENT.
WE AS A WE AS A COUNTRY DON'T
CARE FOR EACH OTHER VERY WELL
THROUGH ALL SORTS OF DIFFERENT
CHANNELS BUT CERTAINLY IN OUR
GOVERNMENT AND WE THEN WE
THEREFORE SINCE SINCE COMMUNITY
CARE IS AN IMPORTANT VALUE THAT
WE WE HOLD AT THE TABLE AND WE
HOLD IN THE COMMUNITY.
>> IT IS IT'S THE OPPORTUNITY
SUCH AS THIS THROUGH THE EXCISE
TAX REBATE AND THROUGH THE
CREATIVE INTERFACE BETWEEN
COUNCIL AND THE HOUSING
COMMISSION THAT WE ARE ABLE TO
TO TAKE SOME STEPS IN AREAS
WHERE WE HAVE AS A AS A LOCAL
GOVERNMENT PREVIOUSLY NOT BEEN
NOT BEEN ACTING.
AND SO I'M I'M DELIGHTED THAT
WE THAT WE SAY WE TAKING
SEEKING SOME SOME SORT OF GROUP
CREDIT FOR THE WORK BEING DONE
BY COUNCIL MEMBERS WORKING HARD
ON THIS THAT WE AS A COUNCIL
ARE TAKING THE STEP I THINK IS
AN IMPORTANT AND IMPORTANT AND
IMPACTFUL ONE AND I'M DELIGHTED
THAT WE'RE WE'RE DOING IT
TODAY.
>> IT'S IT'S A FURTHER
DISCUSSION.
>> CATHERINE WATSON, THIS ISN'T
ON
THIS AMENDMENT BUT WELL THEN
CAN I CAN I CAN I COME IN ON
THIS THREE JUST TO GET IT BACK
IN ORDER OR JUST ON THE BUDGET
OR THAT PASSED THE OH I SEE.
I MEAN THE OVERALL BUDGET NOT
THE AMENDMENT THAT IS I MEAN AS
A MATTER OF CRASS FORMALITY IS
OUT OF ORDER IN THIS CONTEXT.
>> BUT I'LL PUT YOU ON THE
QUEUE AS SOON AS I VOTE WE VOTE
ON THIS, OK?
ALL RIGHT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THIS
AMENDMENT IN FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVE COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
ON THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED
AND SORRY THEREFORE BRIEFLY AND
UNFORTUNATELY BEING OUT OF YOUR
RESOLVED BUT BUT YEAH.
>> WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE
OVERALL BUDGET.
>> MY I'M KIND OF LUCKY IN
SITTING IN A SEAT BECAUSE THIS
THIS FIRST BUDGET IS
ACCOMPLISHING A NUMBER OF MY
PRIORITIES RIGHT OFF THE BAT.
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S LEVERAGE.
IT'S LEVERAGING FUNDS TOWARDS
ROADS, WATER INFRASTRUCTURE AND
PROGRAMS THAT SUPPORT OUR
CLIMATE GOALS.
ESPECIALLY EXCITED FOR THE
DRAINAGE STUDY ON GRAVEL ROADS,
MANY OF THOSE ARE IN WARD TWO
AND ALSO THANK YOU TO COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS BECAUSE SHE'S ALSO
BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION TO THE
ROADS IN WARD FIVE AND THE THE
DIFFICULTY WITH CITY MAINTAIN
GRAVEL ROADS AND THE DRAINAGE
COMING OFF OF THEM.
I'VE SEEN I'VE GOT MULTIPLE
CONSTITUENT COMMENTS ABOUT THAT
AND I'M GLAD WE'RE WORKING TO
STUDY THOSE IMPACTS.
>> THE OTHER THING I WANT TO
SPEAK ON AND IN THE OVERALL
BUDGET HERE IS THE TANGIBLE
INVESTMENT IN THE BLACK
COMMUNITY THAT WE ARE DOING
THROUGH THE HOUSING COMMISSION
WITH OUR CATHERINE STREET
DEVELOPMENT THAT'S GOING TO BE
63 UNITS OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
HERE THOUGH IS THE FACT THAT
SPACE IS GOING TO BE PROGRAMED
AS A PHYSICAL PLACE TO REMEMBER
AND TO TO CONTINUE TO
COMMEMORATE THE BLACK COMMUNITY
HERE I HAVE SOME WORDS SHARED
WITH ME BY JAMAL BUFFETT WHO IS
A BUFFORD WHO IS A MEMBER
OF THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL, A PROJECT SPECIALIST
AT WASHTENAW COUNTY, MY
BROTHER'S KEEPER, WHICH IS A
GROUP DEDICATED TO SUPPORTING
BLACK MEN AND BLACK BOYS AND
JUST THE BLACK COMMUNITY MORE
BROADLY, MR BUFFETT BUFFORD
WRITES THE COMMUNITY LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL IS COMPRISED
OF RESIDENTS AND DESCENDANTS
OF RESIDENTS OF THIS FORMERLY
PREDOMINANTLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD.
ASIDE FROM PROVIDING AFFORDABLE
HOUSING FOR INDIVIDUALS COMING
OUT OF SHELTER AND ARTISTS, WE
WANT THIS SPACE TO HAVE A
CONSTANT PRESENCE OF ART
HONORING THE RICH BLACK HISTORY
FROM THIS AREA OF ANN ARBOR
THROUGHOUT THE BUILDING WE WANT
THE FIRST FLOOR TO BE WELCOMING
NOT ONLY TO RESIDENTS BUT ALSO
FOR THE BROADER COMMUNITY.
>> WE WANT THIS SPACE TO BE
USED TO ADDRESS COMMUNITY NEEDS
AS AN EVENT CAMINO'S GATHERING
SPACE TO PROMOTE
ENTREPRENEURSHIP AND FOR SKILL
BUILDING.
WE WANT BLACK PEOPLE IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO BEGIN TO ENVISION
HOW THIS SPACE CAN BE A
WELCOMING HOME.
SO THIS BUDGET DEDICATES THREE
HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND TO
PROGRAM TO SPACE AND ONE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND TO
THE HOUSING COMMISSION TO
SUPPORT BIPAC OWN BUSINESSES.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER RINK'S I'D LIKE
TO MOVE AMENDMENT NUMBER TWO IS
THERE A SECOND SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA COUNCIL
BRIGGS YOU HAVE THE FLOOR.
YEAH THANKS.
SO THIS AMENDMENT PROPOSES TO
APPROPRIATE ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX REVENUE TO
THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY.
>> I APPRECIATE DE-ANNE KELLY
WHO CALLED IN EARLIER AND IS
DOING AMAZING WORK AND HIS
STAFF EVERY DAY JUST A LITTLE
BROADLY THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION
OF WASHTENAW COUNTY IS THE
PRIMARY PROVIDER OF SERVICES
AND EMERGENCY SHELTER FOR
AROUND TWELVE HUNDRED WASHTENAW
COUNTY INDIVIDUALS EACH YEAR
IT'S THE ASSOCIATION IS HOUSED
AT THE DELANA CENTER WHICH IS
IN THE FIFTH WARD BUT OBVIOUSLY
SERVES OUR ENTIRE COMMUNITY AND
COUNTY.
IT ALSO PROVIDES ADDITIONAL
DAYTIME AND OVERNIGHT EMERGENCY
SHELTER TO INDIVIDUALS
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS IN
THE IN THE COUNTY DURING THE
WINTER MONTHS LAST WINTER IT
OPERATED FIVE SITES INCLUDING
THE DELANA CENTER, A HOTEL OFF
SITE FOR THOSE WITH ACUTE
MEDICAL CONDITIONS, A ROTATING
SHELTER WITH COMMUNITY
CONGREGATIONS THROUGHOUT THE
COUNTY AND TWO MONTHLY SHELTERS
LOCATIONS ONE IN IPSI YPSILANTI
AND THE OTHER IN ANN ARBOR.
>> LAST NOVEMBER WE CITY
COUNCIL APPROVED SEVENTY TWO
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO THIS
SHELTER ASSOCIATION FOR WINTER
EMERGENCY SHELTER SHELTERING.
>> HOWEVER, AS MR KELLY NOTED,
THE SHELTER ASSOCIATION SAW
FIRST A THIRTY PERCENT INCREASE
THEN THAT STABILIZED AT AROUND
TWENTY PERCENT INCREASE OVER
PAST WINTERS IN TERMS OF NEED
AND AS HE ALSO MENTIONED ARE
SEEING A GREATER ACUITY OF NEED
OF FOLKS THAT THEY ARE SERVING
.
>> SO I YOU KNOW, EXCITED TO BE
MOVING THIS FORWARD IN TERMS
OF PROVIDING ADDITIONAL SUPPORT
THAT CAN SERVE BOTH THE THE THE
WINTER SHELTER IN THIS WINTER
BUT THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE YEAR
AS COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR TAYLOR.
I AM PROUD TO BE SPONSORING
THIS RESOLUTION TONIGHT
ALONGSIDE THE COUNCIL MEMBERS
BRAKE'S CORNELL WATSON ACKMANN
IN SUPPORT OF THE SHELTER
ASSOCIATION WASHTENAW COUNTY.
THIS AMENDMENT DIRECTLY INVESTS
IN AND SUPPORTS THE IMPORTANT
WORK BEING DONE BY THE NATIONAL
CENTER TO PROVIDE SHELTER AND
SERVICES TO OUR CITY'S HOMELESS
POPULATION.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER RICK SPOKE ABOUT
SOME OF THE WORK THAT THIS WILL
HELP TO ACCOMPLISH.
BUT I ALSO WANT TO ADDRESS THE
FACT THAT HOUSING INSECURITY
AND HOMELESSNESS IS A CRISIS IT
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACTS
MARGINALIZED COMMUNITIES MOST
RACHEL MINORITY GROUPS
ESPECIALLY AFRICAN-AMERICANS
AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLE
EXPERIENCE HOMELESSNESS AT
HIGHER RATES A DIRECT RESULT
OF HISTORIC AND STRUCTURAL
ONGOING RACISM.
ACCORDING TO THE NATIONAL
ALLIANCE TO END HOMELESSNESS,
THE MOST STRIKING DISPARITY CAN
BE FOUND AMONG
AFRICAN-AMERICANS WHO ACCORDING
TO TWENTY TWENTY TWO DATA
REPRESENT JUST 13 PERCENT
OF THE GENERAL POPULATION.
IT ACCOUNTED FOR THIRTY SEVEN
PERCENT OF THE PEOPLE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS AND
MORE THAN FORTY NINE PERCENT
OF THE HOMELESS FAMILIES WITH
CHILDREN.
ADDITIONALLY, I WANT TO MAKE
SURE WE CONTINUE TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT LGBTQ PLUS INDIVIDUALS ARE
SIGNIFICANT MORE LIKELY TO
EXPERIENCE HOMELESSNESS.
ACCORDING TO THE WILLIAMS
INSTITUTE, 17 PERCENT
OF LESBIAN, GAY AND BISEXUAL
ADULTS AND 30 PERCENT
OF TRANSGENDER ADULTS HAVE
EXPERIENCED HOMELESSNESS AT
SOME POINT IN THEIR LIVES
COMPARED TO JUST SIX PERCENT
OF THE US POPULATION AT LARGE.
WE KNOW THAT THE LEADING CAUSE
OF HOMELESSNESS IS ECONOMIC
HARDSHIP AND THE INSTITUTE'S
TWENTY TWENTY RESEARCH ALSO
FOUND THAT TWENTY TWO PERCENT
OF LGBTQ ADULTS LIVE IN POVERTY
IN THE US COMPARED TO 16
PERCENT OF NON LGBTQ PEOPLE AND
THAT EIGHT PERCENT
OF TRANSGENDER ADULTS REPORTED
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS IN
THE PAST YEAR COMPARED TO THREE
PERCENT OF NON TRANSGENDER
LESBIAN GAY AND BISEXUAL PEOPLE
AND ONE PERCENT OF CIS GENDER
HETEROSEXUAL ADULTS.
HOMELESSNESS IS A COMPLEX ISSUE
AND A ONE SIZE FITS ALL.
THERE IS NOT A ONE SIZE FITS
ALL SOLUTION AND THAT'S WHY IT
IS IMPERATIVE THAT AS WE
CONTINUE TO ADDRESS OUR
COMMUNITIES HOUSING AND
AFFORDABILITY CRISIS WE ALSO
CONTINUE TO INVEST IN AND
SUPPORT THE AGENCIES AND
ORGANIZATIONS DOING THE WORK TO
PROVIDE SHELTER AND CRITICAL
SERVICES TO THOSE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS.
FRANKLY, ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS IS NOT NEARLY ENOUGH.
BUT AS WE HEARD FROM DAN KELLY
THIS EVENING DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT, IT HELPED TO SUPPORT
SOME OF OUR COMMUNITIES MOST
VULNERABLE RESIDENTS FOR THAT
REASON I ASK FOR MY COLLEAGUES
SUPPORT FOR THIS AMENDMENT.
>> THANK YOU.
FURTHER A DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
I'M IN SUPPORT.
I DO WANT TO POINT OUT HOW YOU
KNOW, ADDITIONAL MONIES TO
SUPPORT OUR HOMELESSNESS WORK
IS NOT IN REPLACE OF HOUSING
FIRST TEMPORARY HOUSING IS NOT
THE SAME AS PERMANENT HOUSING
AND WE STILL NEED TO REMAIN
COMMITTED TO BUILDING HOUSING
AND PROVIDING HOUSING
ACCESSIBILITY ACROSS ALL
INCOMES WHILE OUR LOW INCOME
NOT ALL INCOMES I'M SORRY AND I
ALSO WANT TO POINT OUT THE
PARTNERSHIPS THAT HAPPEN WITH
THE SHELTERS ASSOCIATION.
WE HAVE FOOD GATHERERS THAT
RUNS THE PANTRY.
>> THE PACKARD HEALTH ALSO
OFFERS SERVICES.
THEY WORK IN COORDINATION WITH
S.O.S COMMUNITY SERVICES AND
THE HOTLINE WHICH WE KNOW FROM
LAST YEAR WAS REALLY
STRUGGLING.
YOU KNOW, EVERY DOLLAR IT GOES
TOWARDS THIS THIS NETWORK
OF WORK FROM INTAKE TO
TEMPORARY HOUSING TO DIVERSION
EVEN DIVERSION AND TRYING TO
FIND COUNSELING AND HELPING
FOLKS SEE WHAT OPTIONS ARE
AVAILABLE TO THEM EVERY NIGHT
IS ESSENTIAL.
>> AND I REALLY I I HOPE THIS
WILL HELP US PREPARE AS MUCH AS
WE CAN FOR THE FOUR FOR THE
FALL WHEN WE NEED SO MANY MORE
RESOURCES, MORE SHELTERS, MORE
PARTNERSHIPS ESPECIALLY THEIR
FAITH AGENCIES, FAITH BASED
AGENCIES WHO ARE ALSO TASKED
WITH WITH THEIR OWN BUDGETS
SUPPORTING OUR COMMUNITY NEEDS
.
EVERY DOLLAR IS GOING TOWARDS A
NETWORK OF CARE AND IT'S A
WORTHWHILE INVESTMENT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION
WELFARE.
OH I'M SORRY CANTABRIANS MY
APOLOGIES.
HEY, THERE WAS ONE THING I
FAILED TO SAY AND THAT IS THAT
WE ARE SEEING AS WE'RE SEEING
AN INCREASE IN FOLKS NEEDING
SHELTER SERVICE SERVICES.
I WOULD I WOULD CALL AND THIS
IS A CHALLENGE TO OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES ACROSS THE
COUNTY TO BE LOOKING AT THEIR
BUDGETS THIS YEAR AND TO TO BE
IDENTIFYING IF THEY ALSO CAN BE
SUPPORTING OBVIOUSLY AFFORDABLE
HOUSING BUT ALSO THE NEED FOR
EMERGENCY SHELTERING.
I'M I'M PROUD THAT THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR HAS CONSISTENTLY
PROVIDED SUPPORT BUT THIS IS A
COUNTY WIDE NEED FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL PASSING.
SO JUST ELABORATE ON THAT A
LITTLE.
WE ARE THE ONLY MUNICIPALITY
THAT CONTRIBUTES GENERAL FUND
DOLLARS TO COUNTYWIDE
HOMELESSNESS SHELTERING EFFORTS
SO
EVEN THOUGH TONIGHT WE'RE
DOING BUDGET AMENDMENTS FOR THE
MARIJUANA REVENUE IN OUR AREA
NOT ONLY CONTRIBUTES ANNUALLY
TO SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES AND
HOMELESSNESS WORK, WE ALSO
CONTRIBUTE FROM OUR FUNDING.
>> WE HAVE YET TO SEE OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES IN THE COUNTY
CONTRIBUTE TO THIS AND I
ENCOURAGE MORE INVOLVEMENT.
WE'VE HAD DISCUSSIONS
THROUGHOUT THE PANDEMIC AND
HOPEFULLY WE SHOULDN'T GET TO
ANOTHER EMERGENCY TO TO FURTHER
THAT THAT CONVERSATION.
>> THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
>> WELL FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED FURTHER DISCUSSION
OF THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON.
I'D LIKE TO MOVE AMENDMENT ONE
AMENDMENT TO APPROPRIATE FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND FROM FISCAL
YEAR TWENTY FOR MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX REBATE TO EVICTION
PREVENTION AND LOW INCOME YOUTH
SERVICES.
>> IS THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILMAN WORKED OUT BECAUSE
HE HAD IN MY APOLOGIES
COUNCILOR WATSON YOU THE FLOOR
SO CONTINUING IN THE SAME VEIN
THIS AMENDMENT IS DESIGNED TO
ALLOCATE MONEY TO TO SOME
OF THE TO SOME OF THE GAPS THAT
WE'RE SEEING IN TERMS OF AN
INCREASED AN INCREASE IN FAMILY
HOMELESSNESS HERE IN THE
COUNTY, AN INCREASED NUMBER
OF INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE ON THE
EDGE OF EVICTION THAT JUST
TAKING THIS IN THE FIRST PART
WHICH IS THE EVICTION
PREVENTION DOLLARS WE ALLOCATED
THREE HUNDRED FIVE THOUSAND
DOLLARS TOWARD EVICTION
PREVENTION EARLIER THIS YEAR
AND MRS HALL, THE HOUSING
COMMISSION HAVE ALLOCATED
ALMOST HALF OF THAT MONEY
ALREADY.
>> SO THAT'S HOW MUCH NEED
THERE IS AND THAT'S HOW QUICKLY
WE ARE GOING THROUGH THESE
FUNDS AND BECAUSE THESE
FAMILIES AND INDIVIDUALS ARE ON
THE EDGE PUSHED THEY ARE BY
RISING FOOD PRICES AND OTHER
COSTS OF LIVING HERE THAT MONEY
IS ABLE TO STOP THEM FROM
FACING EVICTION AND FACING
HOMELESSNESS AND KEEPS THEM IN
A HOUSING, KEEPS THEM HOUSED
AND CREATES A POSITION WHERE WE
ARE KIND OF WE ARE FOLLOWING
THAT HOUSING FIRST MODEL RATHER
THAN TRYING TO ACT ON THE BACK
END AND GET PEOPLE BACK INTO
HOUSING ONCE THEY'VE THEY'VE
FALLEN OUT OF IT.
I I WANTED TO ALSO KIND OF DRAW
ATTENTION TO KIND OF HOW THIS
MONEY CAN BE SPENT.
>> MRS HALL SAYS THEIR STAFF
CAN WORK DIRECTLY WITH TENANTS
LANDLORDS KAUTZ THE HAWK
HOUSING LINE AND OTHER
NON-PROFITS.
>> SO YOU KNOW I'M REALLY
EXCITED THAT THIS MONEY CAN GO
TO SUCH A DIRECT NEED AND THE
OTHER PORTION OF THIS IS
ALLOCATING TWO HUNDRED FIFTY
THOUSAND TO YOUTH SERVICES.
THERE'S LOW INCOME YOUTH
SERVICES AND THOSE ARE PLACES
LIKE KHAN COMMUNITY ACTION
NETWORK, SIDEPIECE NEIGHBORHOOD
CENTER AND JUST ANY ANY
ORGANIZATION THAT PROVIDES
SERVICES TO LOW INCOME YOUTH IS
ELIGIBLE.
IT'S IN IT'S IN THE FACE
OF COVID AND I THINK THE MENTAL
HEALTH CRISIS AND ALSO JUST THE
LACK OF OPPORTUNITY TO FOR
YOUTH TO COME TOGETHER AND AND
ENJOY WHAT OUR COMMUNITY HAS TO
OFFER.
>> I THINK THIS MONEY IS IS A
IS A IS DIRECTED IN A WAY TO TO
HELP IMPROVE THE SITUATION
OF YOUTH HERE IN OUR CITY.
>> AND I JUST WANT TO THANK YOU
THANK AGAIN MY CO-SPONSORS, A
CAST MEMBER HARRISON COUNCIL
MEMBER GHAZI EDWIN COUNCIL
MEMBERS HOLLIGAN COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS THIS THIS WORK CAME
TOGETHER BECAUSE OF THE NHS
PARTNERSHIP COMMITTEE, THE
HOUSING COMMISSION, THE AND
ALSO WAS ENDORSED BY THE
HOUSING AND HUMAN SERVICES
ADVISORY BOARD AND YOU CAN SEE
A COMMISSION, A COMMUNICATION
FROM THAT COMMISSION IN OUR
PACKET TONIGHT.
>> SO THANK YOU AND I HOPE
YOU'LL SUPPORT IT COUNCILOR
BECAUSE HE HAD ONE.
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO ECHO SOME
OF COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON'S
COMMENT.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK DEREK
MILLER, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
OF CANNES FOR CALLING IN EARLY
ON FOR HIS COMMENT.
I WANT A NAME THAT CAN AS AN
ORGANIZATION OPERATE SEVEN
SITES WITH A ONE POINT FIVE
MILLION DOLLAR BUDGET AND
SERVES 13 PERCENT OF THOSE IN
POVERTY IN THE COUNTY, 70
PERCENT OF THOSE THAT SERVE OUR
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES OF COLOR
WHO ARE LOW INCOME CAN'T AS A
COUNCIL MEMBER, WATSON STATED
CAN AND SIMILAR ORGANIZATIONS
THAT PROVIDE YOUTH PROGRAMING
HAVE EXPERIENCED SIGNIFICANT
CUTS ESPECIALLY UNCOVERED AND
THOSE LEVELS HAVE NOT RETURNED
TO PRE DEGREE PANDEMIC LEVELS
ACCORDING TO RESEARCH FROM THE
AFTER SCHOOL ALLIANCE.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT EXPERIENCING
YOUTH PROGRAMING CAN
SIGNIFICANTLY CHANGE OUTCOMES
RELATED TO MENTAL AND PHYSICAL
HEALTH MAKE ONE LESS LIKELY TO
BE A PERPETRATOR OR A VICTIM
OF VIOLENCE AND IMPROVES
ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE,
SELF-ESTEEM AND RELATIONSHIPS.
HOWEVER, BIPAC CHILDREN ARE 10
PERCENT LESS LIKELY THAN WHITE
MIDDLE TO UPPER CLASS CHILDREN
TO PARTICIPATE IN AFTER SCHOOL
OR YOUTH PROGRAMING DUE TO
FINANCIAL HARDSHIP.
THEREFORE, WITH OUR CITY BEING
THE EIGHTH MOST ECONOMICALLY
SEGREGATED CITY IN THE NATION,
I THINK THAT IT IS ESSENTIAL
THAT AS THESE DISPARITIES
INCREASE THAT WE MAKE SURE THAT
OUR CHILDREN CONTINUE TO HAVE
ACCESS AND AND THE ABILITY TO
EXPERIENCE QUALITY YOUTH
PROGRAMING.
SO YEAH, WE HOPE THAT WE CAN
HAVE OUR COLLEAGUES SUPPORT IN
THIS COUNTRY BREAKS UP WHEN TO
THINK COMES FROM WATSON FOR FOR
HIS LEADERSHIP ON THIS AND THE
OTHER CO-SPONSORS AS WELL.
AND TO JENNIFER HALL WHOSE
SPENT A LOT OF TIME HELPING TO
TO GUIDE US IN TERMS
OF THINKING ABOUT HOW WE CAN
UTILIZE THESE FUNDS AND HOW WE
CAN GET THEM OUT QUICKLY INTO
OUR COMMUNITY.
>> OBVIOUSLY THE BEING ABLE TO
STOP SOMEBODY FROM GETTING
EVICTED IS AND KEEPING THEM IN
THE HOME THAT THEY'RE ALREADY
IN IS IS THE BEST WAY TO TO
STEM THE PIPELINE INTO OUR
EMERGENCY SHELTER OR INTO INTO
A FUTURE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
>> SO THIS IS MUCH NEEDED FUNDS
RIGHT NOW AND THEN IN TERMS
OF THE YOUTH SERVICES COUNCIL
MEMBER GARTSIDE WHEN I SPOKE TO
THE THE GREAT NEED FOR THAT,
I'VE ALSO SPOKEN TO BONNIE
BILLUPS WHO'S THE DIRECTOR
OF THE PEACE NEIGHBORHOOD
CENTER ABOUT THE GREAT NEED
THAT AND SERVICES THAT THEY
PROVIDE AND THE NEEDS THAT
THEY'VE SEEN DURING THE
PANDEMIC AND AND AS WE'RE AS
WE'RE EMERGING IN TERMS OF OF
YOUTH PROGRAMING.
>> AVALON ALSO PROVIDES GREAT
SERVICES THERE AS WELL.
>> AND I'VE ALSO TALKED TO
SPOKEN TO FOLKS WHO ARE IN OUR
HOUSING COMMISSION SITES WHO
ARE REITERATING THE THE NEED
FOR FOUR ADDITIONAL YOUTH
PROGRAMING AND SPEAKING TO THE
FACT THAT THAT THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT THAT THEY'RE
SEEN AS A GAP AS WELL.
>> SO I HOPE TO SEE SUPPORT FOR
THIS THIS EVENING FOR
COUNCILPERSON ON THE EVICTION
CRISIS.
I MEAN IT'S A NATIONAL ISSUE
RIGHT NOW BUT HERE IN
WASHINGTON COUNTY WE DO HAVE
RESEARCH ON THIS.
THE POVERTY SOLUTION CENTER
CREATED A REPORT IN 2020.
IT'S ONLY 40 SOMETHING PAGES
LONG A TOTAL THAT READ I
ENCOURAGE IT.
>> IT'S POINTS TO HOW EVICTIONS
IMPACT DIFFERENT MUNICIPALITIES
IN THE COUNTY.
>> AND I THINK WHAT'S REALLY
REVEALING IS HOW WE TALK ABOUT
EVICTIONS.
WELL, THE THREAT OF EVICTION
AND HOW THAT IMPACTS FAMILIES
AND COMMUNITIES HERE.
>> SO IT'S IT IMPACTS FAMILIES
EVEN BEFORE IT'S FILED.
SO THERE'S THE THREAT
OF EVICTION, THE EVICTION
PROCESS ITSELF, THE LACK
OF LEGAL REPRESENTATION FOR THE
MAJORITY OF RESIDENTS.
THE PAVRI SOLUTIONS REPORT
SPEAKS TO HOW IN TWENTY
EIGHTEEN FROM 2014 TO 2018 ONLY
TWO POINT THREE PERCENT
OF TENANTS WERE REPRESENTED BY
AN ATTORNEY WHEREAS LANDLORDS
WERE REPRESENTED NINETY POINT
FIVE PERCENT OF THE TIME.
AND WE'VE SPOKEN A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT RIGHT TO COUNSEL AND SEEN
THAT WORK AND OTHER IN DETROIT
MAINLY HERE IN THE STATE AND
OUR STARTING DISCUSSIONS ON THE
COMMISSION LEVEL.
BUT MY HOPE IS THAT IF WE AS WE
SEE THESE FUNDS MOVE OUT IN THE
BANK ALONG THE THEME OF WHAT
WHAT WE WANT THE MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX TO REALLY WORK ON
WHICH IS RETURNING TO
COMMUNITIES MOST IMPACTED BY
THE WAR ON DRUGS, IT SEEMS
APPROPRIATE TO WORK ON EVICTION
BECAUSE THIS IS WHERE WE SEE
FAMILIES IN CRISIS WHERE IT'S
ABOUT ABOUT I THINK AN AVERAGE
OF A THOUSAND ONE HUNDRED TEN
DOLLARS IN BACK RENT.
WE'LL PUT FOLKS OUT OF THEM IN
THIS PROCESS THAT IT'S REALLY,
REALLY HARD TO RECOVER FROM.
SO I JUST WANT TO POINT OUT
THAT'S BACKED BY DATA.
IT'S ONGOING UNFORTUNATE AND
HOPEFULLY THIS MARIJUANA TAX
REVENUE CAN ALLEVIATE SOME
OF THAT FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE AMENDMENT, COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON.
I JUST WANT TO THANK COUNCILMAN
OR WATSON FOR HIS LEADERSHIP ON
THIS AMENDMENT AND ALSO, YOU
KNOW, ECHO MY PEERS COMMENTS.
I DO WANT TO JUST KIND
OF MENTION REALLY QUICKLY THAT
THE LOW INCOME YOUTH PROGRAMING
DOES YOU KNOW, WE'RE TALKING
BASICALLY ABOUT MARIJUANA
EXCISE TAX REVENUE.
SO THE LOW INCOME YOUTH
PROGRAMING WILL HELP TO ADDRESS
THE SCHOOL TO PRISON PIPELINE
AS WELL.
SO BASICALLY ON THE FRONT END.
SO I JUST THOUGHT THAT THAT WAS
IT WAS IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT.
SO THANK YOU FOR ALL YOUR HARD
WORK ON THIS AND LOOKING
FORWARD TO SEEING THE RESULTS
FURTHER DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED CATHERINE RACKMAN.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I DON'T THINK IT WILL BE MUCH
OF A SURPRISE TO FOLKS THAT I
TOOK A DEEP DOVE ON HOW THIS
BUDGET ADVANCES ARE
COMPREHENSIVE MOVING TOGETHER
TOWARD VISION ZERO
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND I WAS
VERY PLEASED TO SEE THAT WE
HAVE SIX POINT FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS DEDICATED THIS FISCAL
YEAR TO SPECIFICALLY INVEST IN
OUR ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION
SYSTEM.
THAT'S ABOUT A MILLION MORE
THAN THE FISCAL YEAR 2003.
IT INCLUDES THINGS LIKE
STREETLIGHT REPLACEMENT
CROSSWALK IMPROVEMENTS, TRAFFIC
CALMING SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
AND RAMP REPAIR, ROAD
CONFIGURATIONS, ACCESSIBLE
PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS,
NEIGHBORHOOD BIKE PARKING PILOT
AS WELL STAFF TIME TO WORK WITH
THE TREE LINE CONSERVANCY ON
THE TREE LINE TRAIL.
THIS DOESN'T EVEN COUNT FEDERAL
GRANTS AND EARMARKS THAT WE'RE
PUSHING FOR NOR DOES IT COUNT
THE INVESTMENT THAT WE PUT INTO
INFRASTRUCTURE FOR PEOPLE TO
SAFELY WALK AND BIKE AS WE WORK
ON OUR ROAD RECONSTRUCTION
PROJECTS.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK
YOU TO STAFF FOR REFLECTING
THOSE VALUES AND OUR BUDGET.
I ALSO WANTED TO COMMENT ON
ANOTHER TOPIC.
YOU KNOW, I DON'T THINK THAT
IT'S PART OF OUR CONSIDERATION
AND VOTE TONIGHT BUT I WANTED
TO COMMENT ON THE CITY
ADMINISTRATORS IDEA TO SHORE UP
THE CITY'S FINANCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY THROUGH THE SALE
OF THE CLIMATE AND DEVELOPING
ON THE MEZZANINE PLAZA OF CITY
HALL FOR HIGH DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
>> I THINK HOUSING A VIRTUALLY
ANY KIND IS A BETTER LAND USE
THAN A SURFACE PARKING LOT AND
UNDERUTILIZED OFFICE SPACE AS
WELL.
SO I REALLY SUPPORT US THINKING
IN THIS DIRECTION BUT I DIDN'T
WANT TO MAYBE URGE SOME CAUTION
IN REGARDS TO THINKING ABOUT
CITY HALL.
YOU KNOW, I UNDERSTAND THAT
IT'S 50 PERCENT OCCUPIED RIGHT
.
WE HAVE THIS YOU KNOW, POST
COVID WORK ENVIRONMENT.
WE WANT TO RETAIN OUR
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE AS A
WORKPLACE OF CHOICE.
SO THAT MEANS THAT WE'RE
RESPONDING TO CURRENT
EXPECTATIONS ABOUT HYBRID WORK
AND MAYBE IT'S HERE TO STAY
WITH US FOR THE FORESEEABLE
FUTURE.
BUT I GUESS I JUST WANT US TO
BE PRETTY DARN CONFIDENT THAT
IT WILL STAY THIS WAY BECAUSE
IT SEEMS LIKE ONCE WE GIVE THAT
SPACE UP WE CAN'T REALLY GET IT
BACK AND I DON'T WANT US
SCRAMBLING AND FIVE TO 10 YEARS
BECAUSE WE'VE RUN OUT OF ROOM
FOR CITY HALL.
>> SO THANK YOU.
FURTHER COUNCILMAN BRITISH I
JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU SO
MUCH TO EVERYONE WHO WORKED ON
THESE BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
THEY ARE AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF WORK.
I KNOW THAT YOU ALL WERE
STRETCHED AND DISTRACTED FROM
YOUR DAY JOBS AND WE'VE MANAGED
WITHOUT ARM WRESTLING AND
FIGHTING EACH OTHER TO INVEST
ANOTHER MILLION DOLLARS IN VERY
NEEDED SOCIAL SERVICES AND I AM
THRILLED, JUST GRATEFUL AND
HONORED TO BE PART OF THIS
BODY.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION IN COUNCIL MEMBER
CORNELL
AND COUNCIL MEMBER
BYRON.
>> I THINK THAT THIS BUDGET IS
AN EXCELLENT REFLECTION OF THE
VALUES THAT THE COMMUNITY HAS
STATED THAT IT PRIORITIZES.
>> SO PARKS IMPROVEMENTS
STAFFING INCREASES TO SUPPORT
THE CLIMATE RELIGION TO ZERO
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS AROUND
CLEAN WATER.
I REALLY APPRECIATE
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS THAT
IMPROVE WALKABILITY AND BIKE
ABILITY WHILE ALSO FIXING THE
ROAD SO ACTUALLY IMPROVING THE
QUALITY OF OUR ROADS.
YOU'RE NOT JUST REPAIRING AND
THEN INVESTING IN SOME GREEN
INFRASTRUCTURE AROUND THE TREE
LINE.
I DO ALSO APPRECIATE THE
STAFF'S EFFORTS AND YOU ARE
REALLY TAKING A CRITICAL LOOK
AT NOT JUST WHERE WE ARE NOW
BUT WHERE WE WILL BE IN
FORECASTING THAT STRUCTURAL
DEFICIT IN FISCAL YEAR 2006.
I WANTED TO TOUCH BRIEFLY ON
THE CLIMATE IN CITY HALL.
>> WE I THINK THAT THERE IS
MISINFORMATION IN THE COMMUNITY
THAT I THINK WE NEED TO SORT
OF DISPEL AND WE HEARD THAT WAS
SOME OF THE PUBLIC COMMENTS IS
THAT UPON RECEIPT OF COUNCIL
SUPPORT STAFF WOULD BEGIN THE
WORK TO PROVIDE COUNCIL WITH
APPROPRIATE OPTIONS FOR
CONSIDERATION AND APPROVAL.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT MR.
ANTHONY WANTS TO CARRY A REAL
ESTATE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT ON
HIS OWN AND WITHOUT INPUT.
SO PERHAPS WE COULD STOP
SPREADING THAT MISINFORMATION.
>> I THINK THAT WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT HOUSING WE NEED HOUSING
OF ALL TYPES IN THE CITY AND I
THINK IT'S ENTIRELY APPROPRIATE
TO CONSIDER MARKET RATE HOUSING
FOR CITY OWNED SITES IN TANDEM
WITH DEVELOPING CITY OWNED
SITES FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING
THE EITHER OR OR WE NEED ONE
VERSUS THE OTHER.
IT'S A FALSE DICHOTOMY THAT
OVERSIMPLIFIES A REALLY COMPLEX
PROBLEM.
>> THESE PROBLEMS ARE A RESULT
OF YEARS AND YEARS OF OUR
LEGACY OF EXCLUSIONARY ZONING
AND THEY REQUIRE CREATIVE AND
NOVEL SOLUTIONS TO INCREASE OUR
HOUSING SUPPLY ACROSS ALL
DIFFERENT TYPES OF HOUSING.
I LOOK FORWARD TO WELCOMING NEW
NEIGHBORS INTO OUR CITY AS SOON
AS POSSIBLE AND I REALLY
APPLAUD THE SORT OF OUTSIDE THE
BOX THINKING THAT WENT INTO HOW
WE UTILIZE LAND IN A REALLY
EFFECTIVE AND MORE EQUITABLE
WAY IN THE CITY.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
>> THE MAIN MOTION COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA THANK YOU
MAYOR.
AS I'M HEARING NO ADDITIONAL
AMENDMENTS FROM THE FLOOR AND
I'M KIND OF LOOKING AROUND
RIGHT NOW TO CONFIRM THAT I
MOVE AMENDMENT FOR AN AMENDMENT
IN RECOGNITION OF THE PARKS
FAIRNESS RESOLUTION TO INCREASE
THE PARK'S GENERAL FUND BUDGET
BY TWO HUNDRED AND FIVE
THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED TWENTY
DOLLARS TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE
WITH PAST COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS
DIRECTING THAT GENERAL FUND
PARKS AND RECREATION BUDGET BE
INCREASED TO THE SAME
PERCENTAGE AS THE AVERAGE
GENERAL FUND OVERALL BUDGET
PERCENTAGE INCREASE IS THERE A
SECOND SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA I
THINK THAT THE RESOLUTION IS
PRETTY SELF-EXPLANATORY SO I
DON'T REALLY HAVE MUCH MORE TO
ADD BEYOND THAT FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT ON
FAVOR POSED, THE PARKS FAIRNESS
RESOLUTION IS APPROVED FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF THE MAIN MOTION
AS AMENDED COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
.
I JUST WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU
TO ADMINISTRATOR HONY AND
MISPRISION AND ALL THE OTHER
SERVICE SERVICE ADMINISTRATORS
AND STAFF THAT I KNOW HAVE
SPENT AN INCREDIBLE AMOUNT
OF TIME PREPARING THE BUDGET
AND THEN ANSWERING OUR BUDGET
QUESTIONS AND THEN ANSWERING
MORE QUESTIONS AND THEN WORKING
ON BUDGET AMENDMENTS.
AND SO IT'S IT'S QUITE A
TESTAMENT TO TO THEM THAT, YOU
KNOW, WE HAVEN'T MADE ANY
SHIFTS IN IN WHAT THEY PROPOSED
SPENDING FUNDS ON.
SO THANK YOU FOR PUTTING
TOGETHER A GREAT BUDGET THAT IS
ALIGNED WITH OUR COMMUNITY
VALUES AND OUR COUNCIL VALUES
AND I'LL BE PROUD TO VOTE FOR
IT TONIGHT.
>> COUNCIL MARSONE THERE ARE SO
MANY DISCUSSIONS THAT HAPPEN
WITH CITY STAFF OVER THE COURSE
OF THIS PROCESS.
I CAN'T THANK YOU ALL ENOUGH
FOR ALL THE PHONE CALLS AND
PANICKED MOMENTS WHERE WE WERE
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT JUST HOW
MUCH DO WE REALLY HAVE TO DO.
>> WE HAVE TO BE IMAGINATIVE
ABOUT IN OUR IN OUR PROPOSED
BUDGET.
BUT I'M ALSO ALWAYS REMINDED
OF THIS ONE GRAPHIC ON THE CITY
WEBSITE ON PROPERTY TAXES AND
HOW MUCH WE HAVE TO DO WITH A
TWENTY THREE POINT FIVE PERCENT
THAT WE COLLECT FOR CITY
SERVICES VERSUS THE FIFTY TWO
POINT NINE PERCENT THAT GOES TO
EDUCATION, EDUCATION IS GOOD
BUT ALSO WE ONLY GET TWENTY
THREE POINT FIVE PERCENT.
WE'RE ALSO LIMITED BY HEADLY
AND PROVI AND WE DO WHAT WE CAN
WITH WHAT WE HAVE AND THEN
WE'RE ALSO GUIDED BY JUSTICE
WORK WITH WHAT WE COME THAT
COMES IN BY WAY OF MARIJUANA
REVENUE AND DOWN THE LINE WE
ARE FUNDING.
>> SO I APPRECIATE THE STAFF'S
CONTINUED EFFORTS TO DO WITH DO
SO MUCH WITH WHAT THEY HAVE
WITH EACH DEPARTMENT AND THE
ADDITIONAL MONIES THAT COME IN
THROUGH IMAGES THAT OUR
COMMITTEE HAS VOTED IN
OVERWHELMING SUPPORT BECAUSE I
THINK THEY BELIEVE IN THE THE
TALENT AND THE LEADERSHIP THAT
WE HAVE HERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER ARDINO.
THANKS, MAYOR.
I JUST ALSO WANT TO BRIEFLY
ECHO THANKS TO STAFF FOR ALL
OF THEIR WORK ON THIS BUDGET
AND TO MY COLLEAGUES FOR THEIR
THOUGHT THAT WENT INTO IT AS
WELL IN DEVELOPING SOME
OF THESE AMENDMENTS.
I DO KNOW I THINK I HEARD LAST
WEEK THAT THAT WE'D SUBMITTED
SEVENTY SIX BUDGET QUESTIONS
PRIOR TO RIGHT PRIOR TO THE
TONIGHT IT SEEMS LIKE THAT HAS
GONE UP MORE IN STARK CONTRAST
TO THE PREVIOUS YEAR WHICH IS I
THINK BELOW 10 AND I THINK A
TESTAMENT TO THE WORK THAT WENT
INTO THIS BUDGET AND THE
VISIONING FOR IT THAT THAT WE
STILL YOU KNOW, RELATIVELY FEW
AMENDMENTS THAT THE PROPOSALS
THAT WERE SUBMITTED DID REMAIN
INTACT.
I DO BRIEFLY WANT TO ADDRESS
SOMETHING THAT AND THEN I
DISCUSSED AND ULTIMATELY
DECIDED NOT TO MAKE AN
AMENDMENT AT THIS TIME WAS
AROUND SOME OF THE NEEDS WE
KNOW EXIST IN THE COMMUNITY
AROUND OUR NEW RENTAL ORDINANCE
ENFORCEMENT.
IT'S SOMETHING WE CONTINUE TO
HEAR FROM THE RENTERS
COMMISSION ITSELF AND ALSO
ACKNOWLEDGING WHAT WE'RE
HEARING ABOUT, YOU KNOW,
POTENTIAL DEFICIT AND THE THE
NEEDS THAT THAT MIGHT ENTAIL.
WE DIDN'T DECIDE TO ADD AN
ADDITIONAL FULL TIME EMPLOYEE
TO TO HANDLE THOSE BUT RATHER
ARE GOING TO CONTINUE WORKING
WITH STAFF TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT THAT CONTINUES TO BE A
PRIORITY FOR THE CITY MOVING
FORWARD AND WHAT THAT MIGHT
LOOK LIKE.
AND SO IT'S SOMETHING THAT THAT
WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE WORKING
ON.
BUT I DID WANT TO ADDRESS IT
BECAUSE I KNOW IT'S SOMETHING
THAT I'VE HAD CONVERSATIONS
WITH WITH MANY OF YOU ABOUT AND
PARTICULARLY WITH THE RENTERS
COMMISSION ABOUT I WAS JUST
CHATTING WITH THE CHAIR THIS
LAST WEEK AS WELL LETTING HIM
KNOW
THE DIRECTION WE'RE MOVING
IN AND SO WE CONTINUE TO LOOK
FORWARD TO WORKING WITH THE
RENTERS COMMISSION AS WE LOOK
AT THAT IN THE FUTURE.
THANKS.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MOTION AS AMENDED CATHERINE
PERSON', THIS IS MY LAST ONE SO
I JUST WANT TO MENTION HOW IN
THESE BUDGET DISCUSSIONS THERE
WERE VERY LONG, LONG, LONG
DISCUSSIONS ON THE POTENTIAL
BEHIND REPARATIONS AND I CREDIT
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON FOR
LEADING THIS DISCUSSION AND I
WOULD HAVE IF IF SHE IF I
WASN'T BEHIND I WOULD HAVE
ASKED HER TO SPEAK DIRECTLY OR
MAYBE YOU CAN AFTER THIS.
BUT THESE WE WE LOOKED AT THE
BUDGET.
WE LOOKED AT HOW YOU KNOW, THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
WE'LL TALK ABOUT REDLINING AND
THE HISTORY OF REDLINING IN OUR
COMMUNITY ABOUT HOW SEGREGATED
WE STILL ARE HERE.
>> SO WE HAVE THESE LONG, LONG
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT WHAT WE CAN
DO, WHAT WE SHOULD DO THROUGH
ZONING, WHAT WE PLAN TO DO
THROUGH ZONING AND COMMUNI
ENGAGEMENT BUT THEN ALSO WHAT
CAN WE HOW CAN WE LOOK TO
COMMUNITY TO REALLY ASK TO
REALLY LEAD THIS DISCUSSION TO
AND NOT JUST HAVING IT BE LIKE
A CITY COUNCIL PROJECT WE WOULD
BUDGET FOR FOR A CONSULTANT.
>> SO I THINK THE NEXT STEPS
THAT WE HAD TALKED ABOUT IS IS
THAT WHEN WE TALK ABOUT
REPARATIONS IT'S IT'S NOT JUST
REMEDIES.
IT'S THE CONVERSATION THAT'S
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED HERE IN
COMMUNITY AND LIMITING IT TO
THIS BUDGET PROCESS JUST WASN'T
WASN'T ENOUGH AND I THINK WE
DESERVE SOME MORE BUT MAYBE
THAT'S A LEAD UP TO CYNTHIA.
YES, OK.
I GUESS IT IS CHARLES RIVER
HOUSING IF YOU WISH.
>> THANK YOU SO THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG.
SO BASICALLY WHAT I HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT THIS IS THAT YES,
REPARATIONS WE HAD MANY
DISCUSSIONS UM YOU THOUGHT WE
WERE GOING TO UM PRESENT A
BUDGET AMENDMENT FOR THE STUDY
AND YOU KNOW, WORKING TOGETHER
WE WE BASICALLY DECIDED THAT WE
HAD MORE IMMEDIATE NEEDS TO
ADDRESS.
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO SAY WE'LL
BASICALLY IN ADDITION TO WHAT
COUNCIL MEMBERS LONG SAID IS
THAT WE ARE FIRST OF ALL I WANT
TO SAY THAT REPARATIONS REALLY
IS ABOUT ADDRESSING HARMS.
UM AND SO WE WOULD REALLY LIKE
TO BEGIN THE DISCUSSION.
>> I THINK WE JUST DID UM YOU
KNOW, TO BEGIN THIS PROCESS AND
TO HAVE COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
SURROUNDING YOU KNOW WHAT WHAT
COULD THIS LOOK LIKE HERE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
>> SO THANK YOU FOR EVERYTHING
AND I LOOK FORWARD TO REALLY
HAVING SOME DISCUSSIONS WITH
OUR YOU OUR CONSTITUENTS AND
OUR RESIDENTS ABOUT WHAT WHAT
THIS COULD LOOK LIKE FOR OUR
CITY, THE CITY OF UNIVERSITY
CITY I WAS BORN AND RAISED IN
AND THE CITY THAT MANY OF MY
PEERS, PEOPLE THAT LOOK LIKE
ME, FRIENDS, FAMILY ARE NO
LONGER HERE.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO THOSE
DISCUSSIONS.
>> THANK YOU FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED ARE
FOR MY PART, YOU KNOW, I
BELIEVE THAT THE THE TASK
OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS TO
IMPROVE BASIC SERVICES AND
ENHANCE QUALITY OF LIFE AND AND
THIS BUDGET DELIVERS ROADS,
BIKEWAYS, CROSSWALKS, SIDEWALKS
THEY'LL BE MILES OF THEM NEW,
IMPROVED AND SAFER WATER WILL
BE DELIVERED 24/7 AS MUCH AS
YOU WANT CLEAN, SAFE AND
DELICIOUS.
THE WASTEWATER WILL BE TREATED
STORMWATER CHANNELED POLICE AND
FIRE PROFESSIONAL AND
RESPONSIVE PARKS, NATURAL AREAS
BEAUTIFUL AND ACCESSIBLE EVERY
DAY WE ARE GOING TO WORK TO
IMPROVE THESE CORE SERVICES AND
WITH THIS BUDGET WE WILL.
>> BUT WE ALSO KNOW WE NEED TO
ENHANCE OUR QUALITY OF LIFE AND
THIS BUDGET DELIVERS
AFFORDABILITY SCORES OF NEW
UNITS OF HOUSING D AT THE CORE
OF OUR ORGANIZATION OUR CAPITAL
SPENDING AND SERVICE DELIVERY
AND COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION
ACCELERATING BOSS THROUGHOUT
OUR COMMUNITY.
IT'S INCREDIBLY TRANSFORMING
AND I AM INCREDIBLY EXCITED
THIS BUDGET IS A SUSTAINABLE
AND PRUDENT DOCUMENT BUT IT IS
NOT TIMID.
IT IS NOT TIMID BECAUSE WE AS A
GOVERNMENT ARE NOT TIMID.
>> WE CAN'T BE THE PROGRAM THIS
BUDGET REFLECTS IS THE
EXPRESSION OF A COMMUNITY AND A
LOCAL GOVERNMENT THAT IS EAGER
AND EXCITED TO SERVE RESIDENTS
TODAY AND TO PLAN AND ACT FOR
RESIDENTS TOMORROW.
>> WELL THAT'S WHAT I THINK
ABOUT THE BUDGET AND THAT'S WHY
I'M EXCITED TO BE SUPPORTING IT
TODAY AND BEFORE CLOSING AND
PERHAPS ASKING FOR A VOTE I'D
LIKE TO SAY THAT I AM
INCREDIBLY EXCITED AND GRATEFUL
THAT WE COME TO TO WORK EVERY
DAY.
WELL, WE WORK EVERY DAY BUT WE
COME HERE EVERY OTHER FIRST AND
THIRD MONDAY TO TO WORK WITH
STAFF MINISTER TONY CPFL
PACHON, EVERYBODY UP AND DOWN
THE LINE TO YESTERDAY'S HIGHER.
>> WE ARE JUST SO FORTUNATE TO
HAVE A STAFF THAT WORKS HARD TO
SERVE AND HARBOR RESIDENTS WHO
ARE HERE TODAY AND WHO ARE WHO
DON'T EVEN KNOW THAT THEY'RE IN
OUR SIGHTS YET THIS BUDGET IS
THE RESULT OF OF UNCOUNTED
HOURS OF WORK AND
PROFESSIONALISM AND DILIGENCE
AND CARE AND I AM JUST I'M JUST
SO EXCITED TO BE PART OF IT.
SO TRUE AND EARNESTLY THANK YOU
.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION ON
FAVORITE POSED IT IS APPROVED.
>> ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT ALL VOTING IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING THE
SEVEN VOTE REQUIREMENT HUSSAR
YES FOR RESOLUTION DIRECTING
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
DESIGNATE SOUTHEAST AREA PARK
AS THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
BICENTENNIAL PARK MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN BECAUSE HE HAD ONE
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA DISCUSSION OF DC FOR
COUNCILOR.
>> THANK FIRST AND FOREMOST I
WOULD LIKE TO THANK PARKS AND
REC STAFF AND OTHER CITY STAFF
FOR WORKING WITH ME ON THIS AND
FOR JUST THEIR NEVER ENDING
KIND OF COMMITMENT TO EQUITY.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO THANK THOSE IN
COUNCIL TO HELP WHO HELPED ME
WORK ON THIS INCLUDING MY WARD
COUNCIL MEMBER TRAVIS REED
DENHA SO THIS PROPOSAL IS
REALLY ABOUT EQUITY AND IT'S
ABOUT OUR GOALS FOR OUR
BICENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY WHICH
INCLUDE CELEBRATING OUR RICH
HISTORY AND MAKING SURE THAT
OUR FUTURE DOES NOT LEAVE
ANYONE BEHIND BY MOVING THE
BICENTENNIAL PARK TO SOUTHEAST
AREA PARK, THIS AMENITY WILL BE
ABLE TO BE ENJOYED BY SIDE
OF TOWN THAT IS MORESCHI
RACIALLY, ETHNICALLY AND
SOCIOECONOMICALLY DIVERSE.
IT'S ALSO A SIDE OF TOWN THAT
HAS EIGHT OF OUR CITY'S TWELVE
TITLE ONE PUBLIC SCHOOLS AND
IT'S AN AREA OF TOWN THAT
DESERVES IT NEEDS MORE PATRON
PATRONIZATION, ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT AND WITH THE
PROPOSED LOCATION IT WOULD BE
RIGHT ACROSS THE STREET FROM
YPSILANTI AND PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP ALLOWING US TO
CONTRIBUTE TO THE BETTERMENT
OF OUR REGION.
>> WARD THREE ALSO HAS THE
SECOND HIGHEST HOUSING VOUCHER
COMMUNITIES IN THE CITY AND
THIS PARK WOULD BE LOCATED
CLOSE TO ALSO SOCIAL SERVICE
ORGANIZATIONS LIKE CAN HAKONE
AND OUR MALTZ CREEK PUBLIC
LIBRARY PROVIDING FUTURE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE CITY FOR
YOUTH PROGRAMING BUILDING
BICENTENNIAL PARK AT SE AREA
PARK WILL REQUIRE FUNDRAISING
PRIVATE DOLLARS AND IT'S
SOMETHING I'M COMMITTED TO DO
AND FOR ALL THE REASONS I JUST
SHARED I HOPE MY COUNCIL
COLLEAGUES WILL JOIN ME IN
SUPPORTING THIS RESOLUTION.
>> COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK
YOU MAYOR.
I AM HONORED TO SPONSOR THIS
RESOLUTION ALONGSIDE MY WARD
THREE COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER
KAISA EDWYN AND OUR FELLOW
CO-SPONSORS TO DESIGNATE
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK AS AN
ARBOR'S BICENTENNIAL PARK.
I WILL TRY NOT TO REPEAT
EVERYTHING THAT MY COLLEAGUE
JUST MENTIONED, ALTHOUGH SOME
OF IT MIGHT BE WORTH NOTING BY
SELECTING SOUTHEAST AREA PARK
AS OUR BICENTENNIAL PARK WE
WOULD BE CREATING AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR HISTORIC
INVESTMENT IN A PARK THAT NOT
ONLY SERVES AS A GATEWAY INTO
ANN ARBOR FROM THE SOUTHEAST
SIDE ALONG BOTH ELSWORTH AND
PLATTE ROADS BUT IS ALSO A
CRITICAL COMMUNITY GATHERING
SPACE AND ONE OF OUR MOST
SOCIOECONOMICALLY, RACIALLY AND
ETHNICALLY DIVERSE PARTS OF THE
CITY SOUTHEAST AREA PARK WAS
THE LOCATION OF THE FIRST
ANNUAL BLACK ASIAN SOLIDARITY
PICNIC.
IT'S WHERE AFSA ANN ARBOR
HOSTED COMMUNITY AFTER LAST
YEAR IS LOCATED IN CLOSE
PROXIMITY TO THE BROWN
COMMUNITY CENTER TO CREEKSIDE
COURT COMMUNITY CENTER TO
SEVERAL OF OUR CITY'S HOUSING
COOPERATIVES AND AND IS A
POPULAR DESTINATION FOR
RESIDENTS ALL OVER THE CITY BUT
ESPECIALLY FOR RESIDENTS IN ANN
ARBOR, THE SOUTHEAST AREA
NEIGHBORHOODS THANKS TO WHICH
HAS A BUS STOP RIGHT OUTSIDE
THE PARK SOUTH SOUTHEAST AREA
PARK IS ACCESSIBLE TO RESIDENTS
FROM ALL AROUND ANN ARBOR AND
FROM SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES.
AND WHILE I KNOW ENVISIONING
FOR WHAT A BICENTENNIAL PARK
COULD BE IS STILL ONGOING AND
DEPENDENT ON INVESTMENT AND
SECURING PRIVATE FUNDING, WE
ALREADY HEARD ABOUT THE
POSSIBILITY OF A UNIVERSAL
ACCESS SPLASH PAD WHICH AS A
PAC MEMBER I WILL NOTE THAT
INCREASING WATER ACCESS IN OUR
CITY PARKS THROUGH THIS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY REMAINS A
PRIORITY AND THIS IS NOT AN
AMENITY CURRENTLY OFFERED AT
SOUTHEAST AREA PARK A POSSIBLE
SCULPTURE GARDEN PAYING TRIBUTE
TO INDIGENOUS PEOPLE A
SCULPTURE HONORING FORMER
OLYMPIANS, A COMMUNITY GARDEN
PLOTS ADDITIONAL PARKS
PROGRAMING AND POSSIBLE
PARTNERSHIPS WITH OSSI TO
CONTRIBUTE TO OUR CLIMATE
GOALS.
I WILL NOTE, HOWEVER, THAT
THESE POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS
WILL NOT BE REALIZED OVERNIGHT
THAT THE REALITY REMAINS THAT
IF THIS AMENDMENT IS APPROVED
MUCH OF THIS WORK STILL NEEDS
TO BE ACCOMPLISHED BY RAISING
PRIVATE FUNDS.
SO I ALSO URGE OUR COMMUNITY TO
PLEASE EMBRACE THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO DIRECTLY INVEST IN
SUPPORTING CENTENNIAL PARK AND
AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVEST IN ANN
ARBOR SOUTHEAST SIDE.
FINALLY I JUST WANT TO THANK
PARK STAFF FOR WORKING WITH US
TO ENVISION WHAT THIS SHIFT
WOULD MEAN IN WORKING WITH TO
CRAFT THIS RESOLUTION.
I KNOW I PERSONALLY AS SOMEONE
WHO LIVES RELATIVELY NEARBY TO
THIS TO THIS PARK
SEE ITS USE
EVERY SINGLE DAY, SEE HOW MUCH
IT MEANS TO THE COMMUNITY
AROUND ME AND TO BE ABLE TO
SHARE THAT WITH THE REST OF THE
CITY AND TO CELEBRATE THIS PARK
IN A WAY THAT IT REALLY
DESERVES WOULD BE TRULY
SPECIAL.
AND SO I HOPE THAT MY
COLLEAGUES WILL JOIN ME IN
ADOPTING THIS RESOLUTION.
THANKS FOR THE COUNCIL, MIREIA.
>> THANK YOU.
A BIG THANK YOU TO COUNCIL
MEMBER GOZI EDWYN AND THE REST
OF THE CO-SPONSORS FOR BRINGING
US FORWARD.
>> WHEN I SAW THIS I THOUGHT
PERFECT THIS THIS IS WHAT WE
SHOULD BE DOING AND I JUST
APPRECIATE BRINGING IT FORWARD.
I THOROUGHLY SUPPORT IT AND
WOULD LOVE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCILOR
ROSOL WE ACTUALLY HAVE A PRETTY
SOLID TRADITION IN FUNDRAISING
FOR ADDITIONAL AMENITIES FOR
OUR PARKS IN THE CITY.
THE UNIVERSAL ACCESS PLAYGROUND
AND GALLET PARK WAS FUNDED BY
THE ROTARY CLUB.
THAT WAS A PARTNERSHIP THAT
CAME PRETTY EASILY ALONG AND I
THINK CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
REALLY ENJOY THE THE THE
IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE SEE A
GALLUP USA ELEMENTARY THAT'S
PUBLIC SCHOOL PROPERTY BUT
STILL AN AMAZING COMMUNITY WIDE
EFFORT TO RAISE I THINK SEVERAL
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
THAT NEW PLAYGROUND.
>> IT WAS PLAYGROUNDS ARE
EXPENSIVE THE SKATE PARK LESLIE
SCIENCE AND NATURE CENTER WHICH
IS ALSO A CITY PARK IN ACTUALLY
DOING REMEDIATION ON THE
POLLUTION THERE AND THEN THE
NONPROFIT THAT IS ACTUALLY ALSO
THE A NONPROFIT WITH IN OUR
HANDS ON MUSEUM BOSSLEY SCIENCE
CENTER AND IN A HANDS-ON MUSEUM
ARE ONE ENTITY, YOU KNOW,
RAISED A CAPITAL CAMPAIGN TO
PROVIDE AMENITIES THERE IN OUR
BELOVED PARKS AND I THINK
PEOPLE LOVE TO DONATE TO PARKS
PARKS THAT CAN BE PARKS AND
ACTUALLY AND HAVE THE POTENTIAL
AND ACTUALLY MAKE THAT INTO A
REALITY WITHIN THIS LIFETIME.
SO FOR CHILDREN TO ENJOY BEFORE
THEY'RE NO LONGER CHILDREN SO I
AM REALLY ENCOURAGED TO SEE
THIS PARK.
THIS WAS ACTUALLY ONE OF THE
FIRST RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDED
SITES FOR THE SKATE PARK BEFORE
IT WAS MOVED OVER TO THAT'S
MEMORIAL.
AND I REMEMBER AT THE TIME THE
DRAWBACK WAS THAT THERE WASN'T
ENOUGH BUS SERVICE TO THE AREA
BUT NOW HOPEFULLY PERHAPS WITH
THE BUS MILEAGE HAVING BEEN
PASSED WE CAN SEE MORE BUS
SERVICE AND WITH MORE AMENITIES
BESIDES SOMETHING THAT WOULD
ATTRACT MIDDLE AGE SKATERS, WE
CAN SEE MORE TRAFFIC TO THE
AREA TOO AND IT'S ACROSS FROM
THE DOG PARK.
>> THERE'S A LOT HAPPENING THAT
CORNER ALSO PILATES AS YOU CAN
GET ICE CREAM, MEXICAN ICE
CREAM.
THERE'S A LOT GOING ON IN THAT
CORNER AND I REALLY APPRECIATE
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND I'M
REALLY EXCITED TO SEE THIS COME
AS A CELEBRATION OF OUR OUR
WHOLE COMMUNITY.
>> SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING
WHO STEPS UP TO THIS CHALLENGE.
>> OH, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE A NOTE
THAT THERE IS A TYPO IN THE
SECOND WHEREAS CLAUSE IT STATES
THAT WE HAVE THIRTEEN TITLE ONE
SCHOOLS IN THE CITY WE ACTUALLY
HAVE TWELVE EIGHT OF THEM ARE
STILL IN THE SOUTHSIDE BUT WE
ACTUALLY WE HAVE TWELVE NOT
THIRTEEN.
>> PERHAPS WE CAN HAVE THAT AS
A SCRIBNER'S AMENDMENT I THINK
YOU FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
MAIN MOTION ON FAVOR POST IT IS
APPROVED THIS QUARTER.
WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY WE HAVE
BEFORE THE CLERKS REPORT
COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS GET THE MOTION PLEASE
TO APPROVE THE CLERK'S
DEPARTMENT BY COUNCILMAN,
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN PRIOR
DISCUSSION OF THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT ON FAVOR POSED THE KIRK
SUPPORTERS PROVED THIS COURT WE
HAD THE PLEASURE
OF COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR CITY
ATTORNEY SEAN
, THANK YOU.
WE HAD THERE IS NO PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW THEREFORE MAY
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
PLEASE MOVE ACCOUNTS NO
DECISION BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED